00x00 - The Messengers

[♪ musical swirl ♪]

musical swirl

musical swirl

[rocks clattering]

LOAVES& FISHES

[horse hoofbeat♪]

A.D. 48

[owl hoot♪]

[horse snort♪]

[horse nicker♪]

[horse snort♪]

[owl hoot♪]

soft music ♪]

soft music ♪]

soft music ♪]

[inaudible praying]

[♪igh♪]

[horse hoofbeat♪]



[footstep♪]

JOSEPH:

We might see Samuel but...

We might
see Samuel but...

We might see Samuel but...

it's been
so long,

I don't know if he's
living in the same home.

- Thope so.

- T'hope so.

- T hope so.

SThope so.

- t hope so.

- I hope so.

You've said so much
about him.

- We will see.

- We will see.

We won't have any time to look
for him if he's not, of course.

- We'll see.

都。

- Are we out?

- Are we out?

Are we out?

Not even a drop?

Not even a

[♪igh♪] [clicks tongue]
Come on.

[clicks tongue]

[donkey bray♪]

- Um... Joseph.

- Yes.

Can you stop,
please?

I'd like to walk
for a bit.

[♪igh♪] No, Mary,

why would you want to walk?

- [♪igh♪] No, Mary,

[♪igh♪] No, Mary,

[♪igh♪] No, Mary,

[♪igh♪] No, Mary,

It's dangerous.

I'm getting

a bit uncomfortable.

- I'm getting

Elizabeth actually told me
it's good to walk and move

when I feel up
to it.

We won't have any water

until I get you to town,

- We won't have any water

We won't have any water

you need your rest.

Ay, uh!

Let me get you
more comfortable, huh?

Joseph, you don't need to be

the only one walking.

the only

- Joseph, you don't need to be

the only
walking
one

Plus, we're far enough away
from Nazareth

I don't need to hide
my condition anymore

- Mary,

this blanket is stuck.

- Mary,

Mary,

There is no way
that you're comfortable.

- Joseph.

I'd like to walk
with you... please.

[Joseph sigh♪]

P

- I am responsible

for you, Mary.

"for you, Mary.

SI am responsible

For you and...

- You protect us.

- Yes.

- I know, I know.

- I know, I know.

know, know.

I'll let you

help me down.

'help me down.

[chuckle♪]

[♪igh♪]
All right,

you can walk
for a few minutes, huh?

But please,
not too far?

You need to save

your strength.

your strength.

- I actually do need you

to help me down.

- I actually do need you

- Ah, ah, yes,

ah, yes, sorry.

Ah, ah, yes,

Ah, ah, yes,

Slowly, slowly.

Watch the baby.

Okay, okay,
okay.

[Mary sigh♪]

- You okay?

You okay?

- Yes, yes.

Ooh.

[Joseph clicks teeth]

- Hey.

- Hey.

[Joseph clicks teeth]
[donkey bray♪]

- This feels better.

Mm.

- Mm.

- Thank you.

Thank you

for protecting me.

me.

for protecting me.

I don't know that
I've said that yet.

- We have a little ways
to go yet;

let's see how
tonight goes and, uh--

- I'm not talking

about that.

I'm not talking

- I'm not talking

I'm talking about...
before.

[Joseph clicks teeth]
[donkey bray♪]

- Oh, ah.

- I've been meaning to say
something this whole journey,

and I just--1 didn't,

and I should have.

and I just--1 didn't,

and I just--I didn't,

andI just--1 didn't,

and I just didn't,

and I just--l didn't,

Mm.

should have

months ago.

- I should have

- I should have

- You don't have to.

-Yes,

yes, I do.

Yes,

Yes,

yes, I do.

- Yes,

You could have gotten all of the
bride price back from my father.

It was never

about the money.

- It was never

It was never

It was never

- I know it wasn't,

- I know it wasn't,

and I know it's not
polite to talk about,

but no one
would have blamed you.

For what?

- For what?

- For divorcing me.

Publicly.

Mary, 1--

Mary,

- Mary, I

- Mary,
-

- Mary, 1

- Mary, 1-

Mary, 1-

- Mary,
--

Mary, I

- You could be

betrothed to someone

- You could be

that you don't
have to hide.

And people wouldn't be

gossiping about you.

gossiping about you.

And you could go
be registered

without having to drag
me

on this donkey for five days.

without having to drag me

without having to drag

me

Joseph?

You are a brave man,

and you are godly,

godly

godly,

and you are

and you are godly,

and you are

and you are godly,

and you are godly,

and I should have
said thank you.

soft music

soft music ♪]

- God told me to.

- I know He did.

Mm.

-Mm.

- But you had

a choice.

But you had

- Ah, ha!

I don't believe
that I did.

But I'm glad

either way.

But I'm glad

wouldn't change

single thing that has happened
a

I wouldn't change

I wouldn't change

since that dream,
hmm?

- Neither would I.

- Heh.

Oh, this all

seems impossible, huh?

seems impossible, huh?

seems

seems impossible, huh?

- Yes, yes.

But remember what
the messenger said to me...

www

- Hmm?

- ... nothing is impossible

with God.

... nothing is impossible

...nothing is impossible.

...nothing is impossible

- ...nothing is impossible

- ... nothing is impossible

- ... nothing is impossible

- ...nothing is impossible

...nothing is impossible

...mothing is impossible

...nothing is impossible

- My messenger
didn't say that.

That would have
been nice, huh?

[Mary sigh♪]

Are you feeling
better?

- A bit,
yes.

- A bit,

yes.

yes

yes.

- Okay,
up, up.

- Okay... okay.

Okay... okay.

- Okay... okay.

[Mary grunt♪]

We need to move
quicker.

You need water,

and I planned

to get settled

and I planned

for the part where your
messenger and my messenger

said
the same thing.

"And she will give birth
to a son..."

TOGETHER: "And you shall
call His name Jesus."

Yes...

that part.

-Yes...

- Yes...

Come on.
{clicks teeth]

Bethlehem - 2527 miles
Finished in Herod Antipas Reign

CONPLETUS

COMPLETUS IN

[horse hoofbeat♪]
[indistinct conversation♪]

ROMAN GUARD:
Halt.

Late night
for a delivery.

- It was
long journey.
a

- What have you got?

- I'm sorry?

sorry?

- I'm sorry?

Oh,
agriculture.

Grain.

Fruit.

- What am I gonna find
if I look in here?

- The best figs
in the region.

- Didn't mention
the fine goods.

I'll take a look
at your papers now.

tense music ♪]

tense music

music
tense

tense music ♪]

[♪ tense music ♪]

tense music

tense music ♪]

Everything
all right?

You look

pale.
a little

a little pale.

- Here they are.

- Hail Caesar.

Better not have
skipped my turn.

[indistinct conversation]

[♪huttered sigh]

[marketplace sounds & voice♪]

- All right.

I believe that Samuel's house
is through here.

I'm not sure how
he will respond to your, uh...

condition,

but we will
have water,

and it will be nice
to see him.

Actually...
I don't know if this is it.

It looks
so different.

Maybe because
there are so many people.

I think if we, um--

- Yes?

- We don't have time

to look for Samuel.

We don't have time

No, no,
it will be fine,

I know you wanted
to find him.

- I need to get you
to the inn, Mary;

you need your rest.

Maybe I can find a well
so you can drink,

and I'll take you
straight to the inn, huh?

- Thank you.

Thank you.

- Thank you.

- Ah,
so many people.

[horse nicker♪]

[knocks on gate]

[♪craping sound]

[♪craping sound]

- Are you lost,
traveler?

- No longer,

for I have found the way.

No longer,

[gate creaks open]

[♪craping sound]

Tychicus.

- Lazarus.

- It's an honor.

Your fame has spread
among so many of us.

- You are very kind.

Paul says you are
brave and righteous.

- It's a pleasure
to serve.

- There is someone very eager
for your arrival.

May I tell her
all is safe and sound?

- Yes.

[crickets chirping]

- Come in quickly.

[market sound♪]

soft music

[♪ soft music ♪]

Jsoft music

[♪ soft music ♪]

soft music

soft music ♪]

[♪ soft music ♪]

soft music

soft music

[indistinct conversation♪]

- O God,

you are my God,

- O God,

O God,

- O God,

earnestly

I seek you.

I seek you.

My soul
thirsts for you...

- My soul
thirsts for you.

My flesh faints for you,
as in a dry and weary land--

- ...dry
and weary land

where there is
no water.

[winces in pain]

JOSEPH:
Mary.

- Well,

what did he say?

- Well,

- You won't believe it.

He said that
they are completely full.

The census,
the whole town is overrun.

Unh!

I think
it's because, um...

ugh!

I think
it's because, uh...

he knows we aren't
exactly...

that I can't just give him
more money like the others can,

but he insisted
that they were full.

I was furious,
but...

I kept my calm,

like I promised.

I kept my calm,

- Of course.

I told him

about our situation...

- I told him

I told him

- I told him

that didn't make

a difference, either.

a

a

a difference, either.

difference, either.

a

He just said that
there was nothing.

Finally, his wife said
that if we wanted,

we could try...
camping in the stable.

They promised us water
and blankets to help,

even lamb's cloths
for the baby.

They promised that
they would be clean.

But I can go
look for Samuel.

If he's living
in the same home,

then he will
have room.

- I'm sorry I slowed us down,

I should have stayed on--

on--

I should have stayed

I should have stayed

- Oh, Mary,
it's not your fault.

- Joseph...

We can't
keep looking.

- Have the pangs
started?

- He's coming.

- Ah...

- Ah...

I'm sorry,
he said there was nothing.

LI know, I know.

- I know, I know.

All right,

all right,

- All right,

we will make it work,
hmm?

- Yes, yes,
we will make it work,

W

we will

make it work.

- We will

LAZARUS:
Woman...

- Yes, Lazarus.

- I'm sorry
to wake you, but--

No, I was...

just resting my eyes.

- No, I was...

No, I was...

- Are you feeling

well enough to see her?

Are you feeling

- She's here?

What are you
waiting for?

- Shalom.

[greet with kisse♪]

Oh... how did they

get you here?

Oh.... how did they

Oh... how did they

Our former zealot

had ideas and old friends

- Our former zealot

- Our former zealot

to get me to Tychicus
for the last leg.

was safe.

- Do you need
anything else?

- Where is Zee now?

- Persia, Lebanon,
Armenia...

all over the place.

- I'll just

leave you to it then.

- I'll just

Let me know if
you need anything.

- Thank you!

Thank you!

-

I came as soon

as I heard.

came as soon

MOTHER MARY:
It's just a fever.

I'll be fine,

I just had something
to share with you.

But first, anything to report
about our
boys?

- I don't want...

let's just talk about
what you brought
me here for.

- I want to know,
Mary.

pray for them
every day,

I want to know
what to pray for.

- They're preaching
everywhere,

and the Church
is growing.

And the deaths of
Big James and Nathanael

seemed to have
only emboldened everyone...

especially Peter.

- Of course.

- But it is getting
more difficult.

It's clear they
want us all dead.

You can pray especially
for Andrew in Greece.

They say he will be
arrested at any moment.

- [♪igh♪] I will pray
in earnest.

Do you know
where Luke is?

- Yes,

he's in Rome with Paul.

- Yes,

- Can you reach him?

If necessary, of course.

Why?

- He's been gathering his record of the stories,

and we spoke,

but I didn't tell him everything.

[♪heep bleating]

- Ah, there is enough wood here,

I can put something together for you.

- There's no time;

they're coming a bit faster now.

- All right,

we can do this.

- All right,

Try and see if you can find a spot

to sit on this blanket,

and I'll put something together for you

and clean up, huh?

- Okay.

- Okay.

- He needs a place to sleep.

- What?

When He gets here...

He needs a place to lie down.

When He gets here...

- When He gets here...

You make my bed... I'll make His.

make His.

- Already a mother, huh?

[♪heep bleating]

JOSEPH: Okay.

[♪oft music

Jsoft music ♪]

[♪ soft music ♪]

[woman vocalizing]

[♪heep bleat♪]

[winces in pain]

- My soul magnifies the Lord,

and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,

for He has looked on the humble estate of His servant.

- What is that?

-What?

- What are you saying?

- Oh, nothing...

- Is it a song of David?

We could use one right about now.

- No, sorry, it's... just something to myself.

- A poem you created?

- Yes, but-

- Yes, but--

- Yes, but-

- When?

- Several months ago.

- I would love to hear it.

Mary...?

[winces in pain]

...are you seeing this?

Mary?

Mary?

[Mary gasp♪]

- It's time.

- Oh!

Come, I've got you... come sit.

- Shouldn't we call for help?

You've never done this before;

maybe the wife could come and help?

- No, there isn't any time.

we've got this.

- No, no, no,

I don't want you to see me like this!

[groans in pain]

Mary, look at me.

- No, no, no, I can wait.

Go get someone.

- Don't look over there, Mary;

look at me.

We are not alone.

- I am so scared.

Hey, remember what your messenger said...

the first thing your messenger said;

it was the same thing

my messenger said to me,

imy messenger said to me,

remember?

- Don't be afraid.

- Don't be afraid.

- I love you.

- I love you.

- Thank you for

taking care of me.

taking care of me.

God gave you to me.

- He has been our help,

and in the shadow of His wings we will sing for joy.

and in the shadow of His wings we will sing for joy.

A song of David.

- Yes.

[Mary wincing]

- Can I hear yours now?

- Not now.

[Mary groan♪]

[Mary groans)

[Mary groan♪]

- Oh, I know, I know.

It is time, yes?

- Yes.

- Okay, it is time.

[Mary softly groan♪]

[woman vocalize♪]

It's okay, I've got you.

- I told Luke about the journey to Bethlehem,

and about how we couldn't get a room at the inn.

But I didn't tell him about my psalm.

- Your psalm?

- When I went to see my cousin Elizabeth

when she was pregnant with John,

she cried out when she saw me.

I told Luke about this,

how she was overwhelmed for the both of us...

and she called me the mother of her Lord.

and crying together,

And we were justlaughing

justlaughing And we were

And we were just laughing

and it was all too much,

and words of praise just burst out of me.

Please tell me I'm about to hear them.

- You're going to write them down

and deliver them to Luke.

- [♪igh♪]

- The materials are here.

I trust you to get them right,

and to keep it safe,

I trust you to get them right,

and to get it to Luke.

I've kept it all to myself.

As you know, I like to treasure things in my heart.

- [chuckle♪]

- I was shy,

and it felt personal between God and me,

but... I wish I would have shared it with Joseph.

And people must know...

these felt like God's words as much as my own.

I can't explain it, but they did,

and people must know.

- I'm ready.

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

My soul magnifies the Lord,

and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior.

For behold, from now on,

generations will call me blessed;

and He who is mighty has done great things for me,

and holy is His name.

And His mercy is for those who fear Him...

from generation to generation.

He has shown strength with His arms;

He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts.

He has brought down the mighty from their throne

and exalted those of humble estate;

He has filled the hungry with good things,

and the rich He has sent away empty.

He has helped His servant Israel,

in remembrance of His mercy.

woman vocalizing

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

woman vocalizing ♪]

...as He spoke to our fathers,

to Abraham and to his offspring forever.

woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[woman vocalizing

music swells

music swells♪]

music swells

[♪oft kis♪]

- [♪igh♪]

That's amazing.

- [♪igh♪]

It's like the song of Hannah, but even more beautiful.

A

[baby fusse♪] - Oh.

- Are you better?

Is this comfortable?

-Yes,

thank you.

- Yes,

- Are you still

in pain?

- Are you still

- Yes, but, uh...

the blanket underneath is helping.

[Joseph laugh♪]

- Oh, I don't know how you did that.

I feel like my heart is going to explode.

- Oh, don't make me laugh, it hurts to laugh.

[♪heep bleat♪]

[♪heep bleat♪]

Hmm... He's so small.

- Smaller than T expected.

- I don't know what I expected,

but it wasn't any of this.

- No...

from the beginning of it all.

So...

your messenger said that He would be called holy,

the Son of God.

The prophecy mentions Immanuel.

Are we going to stick with Jesus?

- Hmm...

I think we should.

Probably best, huh?

- Mm-hmm.

- He needs to sleep.

- You both do.

Put him in the manger...

it's a better bed than the one I made for you.

MOTHER MARY: There's something else

I want you to tell Luke.

I want you to tell him about the swaddling cloths.

- You want him to write about it?

- People must know.

I want to honor the help we received from the innkeeper,

but I also think it's lovely that we used the same cloths

they used to wrap newborn lambs.

I wonder if God gave us that as a sign.

- It is lovely.

- And... there's something else.

Go get that box over there, by the window.

Open it;

what's inside is yours.

I kept them.

[gasp♪]

They meant so much to me,

just couldn't

leave them.

I just couldn't

And now they're yours.

- Mother...

- There's a rip here...

from where we gave a piece to one of the shepherds

to dress his wound.

Did you tell Luke

about the shepherds?

- Did you tell Luke

I love that part.

- Of course.

- l-l can't;

this is too--

- l-l can't;

- You can

and you will.

You can

- You can

It will be a reminder of where all this began...

ww

and how He was one of us for a time.

- Thank you. [♪niff♪]

- I have loved you

like a daughter

- T have loved you

since I met you at the wedding.

And you have done God's work.

- I do miss Him.

And it seems like you'll get to see Him before I do.

- Shh, child.

This is not the end.

- I will get this to Luke right away...

[paper rustle♪]

before anything happens to me, or any of us.

- Wait.

The Lord bless you and keep you.

The Lord make His face shine on you

and be gracious to you.

The Lord turn His face toward you

and bring you peace.

- And also to you.

- Shalom.

- Shalom.

[♪oft kis♪]

[door squeaks open]

- Mary of Magdala.

It's good to see you, Luke.

- What are you

doing here?

What are you

It's not safe.

I could have arranged for people-

- You've been recording an account of Jesus' birth, yes?

- Ah, yes.

I've begun collecting historical accounts.

I've just been

to see Mother Mary

- I've just been

in a secure location.

- Yes...

I have completed my writing of her account.

Did she have something to add?

THE CHOSEN The Messengers


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
