01x08 - I Am He

[♪ musical flourish ]

[heavy breathing]
[loud tapping]

- This is the spot,
my sons.

Shalom, my friend!

- I-I don't know
that word.

- It's something
my family says.

It's a greeting of peace.

- You won't find much
of that here, I'm afraid.

- I'm Jacob.

- I'm Yassib.

- Yassib, I would offer you
something to drink,

but as you can see, we have
just begun work on our well.

- You bought this land
from the sons of Hamor?

- For only qesitah.

Can you believe it?

- I believe it every time
the princes of this land

cheat another foreigner.

You will curse the day
you paid that qesitah.

- And what do you think
would have been a fair price?

- Zero qesitah,
zero goats, zero--

- I have sons
to work the land,

and once we strike water--

- You will never strike water.

Yes, recent rain
makes the land look lush,

but the underground river
runs around the mountain,

not up it.

- Our God takes care of us.

- This is Canaan.

The gods are not nice here.

- We won't be here
that long.

We are sojourners.

- Ah, and what are you
looking for?

- A land our God promised
my grandfather, Abraham.

- Your grandfather?

You ever notice how the gods
are always promising us things

but we never
really see them happen?

- Sometimes
it takes generations.

- Ah, suit yourself.

So, what is this god
of yours called, anyway?

- El Shaddai.

- I never heard of Him.

- Not many people have,

but I think someday they will.

- You have no home.

Where's your temple
for this god?

- He has no temple.

- Then where
do you worship Him?

- We build altars
wherever we go.

- You don't carry Him
with you?

- [chuckles] No.

There are no
carved idols of Him.

- So He's invisible?

- Yes.

Well, usually.

There was one time
He broke my hip.

- [laughs]
Oh, no, no!

I've heard enough.

Of all the gods you could
possibly choose from,

you pick an invisible God

whose promises take generations
to come true,

who makes you sojourn
in a strange places

and He broke your hip?

That is a strange choice.

Ah, immigrants...

- We didn't choose Him.

SON :
Father!

- He chose us.

[water sloshing]

[heavy breathing]

[jar clattering]

[heavy breathing]

[water splashing]

[woman vocalizing]

[woman vocalizing]

♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water.

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪ Oh, child...

♪ Walk on the water.

♪ Got no trouble.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

[market noise]

[groan]

[jars clatter]

[gasps for breath]

[sniff, deep breath]

[fire crackling]

[door opens]

[beads jingle]

- You know,
when the door opened,

I honestly hoped it was
a thief or a m*rder*r,

come to put me
out of my misery.

- Sorry to disappoint you,

but there'’s something
I need from you first.

[Neriah coughs]

- Come closer,
I can't see you.

Your hair is matted
and your face is red.

Why?

- You know why.

- If you came back
to live with me

you could go to the well
with the other women

in the cool of the morning.

- You're wrong about that.

I could go with them
if I had stayed with Ramin.

- Out with it.

How much do you need?

- I'm not here for money.

I've brought a bill of divorce.

All you need do is sign it.

- Only a man
can divorce his wife,

not the other way around,
Photina.

- Which is why the certificate
is in your name, Neriah.

- On what grounds
am I to divorce you?

- I'm living
with another man.

- So what?

That's all you did with me,
live here.

- You knew why
I married you.

- Stability.

The shine wore off quick,
didn't it?

- The Pentateuch
makes provision for a husband

to divorce his wife
if she lies with another man.

- Listen to you,
talking about Pentateuch.

- What do I have to do?
Bring him here?

- Yes, I want to see the
latest shade of drooling tomcat

you've put your spell on.

Hurry before he gets bored
like the others.

- Will you sign it or not?

- Give it here.

No.

- Please.

- Please?

[fire sizzles]

You're my property,
Photina,

and I don't part lightly
with my possessions.

[fire sizzles]

[laughter & light chatter]

- The way he ran
from the Red Quarter!

Nearly tripping on his robes.

[laughter]

- A Pharisee running.

Somehow, I can't see that!

- Shulaaaaaaa!

[laughter]

- I thought for certain
he would trip and fall

and I would be arrested.

- Knowing your luck, Rivka,
probably would happen, huh?

[agreement & laughter]

- I thought for certain Lil
was gone forever that day.

- It's Mary now.

- Always was.

- Does anyone
want any grapes?

Barnaby, you eat a lot.

[laughter]

- Very observant, Matthew.

- Thank you.

Simon?

- You know, Matthew, when
you're not behind iron bars,

you're quite handsome.

- I agree.

- Rivka!

[laughter]

YUSSIF:
What is going on?

- May I help you?

- We were just on a walk
and we heard voices

and I thought it sounded like...

but surely not.

- And yet it is You.

- Would you like to come in?

- We would never--

never be caught dead in a--

- In a what?

A tax collector's house?

YUSSIF:
Not only that,

but with... a...

Do you know what she...

and he... they are--

- You seem to be having trouble
finding your words, man.

- Why does your Master eat
with tax collectors and sinners?

- It's not the healthy
who need a doctor, but the sick.

- I must say I am shocked.

She is from the Red Quarter,

much of what is done there

cannot even be spoken
by my tongue or cross my lips,

it is so unholy.

The mere mention of it
would defile me.

- Sounds like
a personal problem.

- But him,
and the others he works with,

they betray our people
for money.

And they're not even sorry.

- If you're so offended,
then leave.

- Let them speak, Andrew.

- They've never offered
guilt sacrifices in the temple.

- What?

PHARISEE:
The priest keeps records.

We check them.

- Tax collectors
are not welcome at the temple.

- You would like them better

if they made
the proper sacrifices?

- This is not about me,
this is about what God wants.

- You are forgetting
the scroll of Hosea, hmm?

Go and learn what this means:

"“I desire mercy
more than sacrifice."”

- There are righteous men
on the lookout for you,

and they are weighing
every word you say.

- Is that a threat?

- Please let them
know this, Yussif.

I have not come to call
the "righteous,"

but sinners.

- Is everything
under control here?

- Yes, we were just
going on our way, centurion.

- That's Primi Ordine
to you.

- Primi Ordine.

- You all keep eating.

I will talk to this man.

Gaius.

- You're making a mistake.

You can walk away from this.

- I made my choice.

- Look at that room.

Other than Rom and Jahaz,

whom I know to be
law-abiding tax collectors,

everyone else in there...
the dregs of Capernaum.

- Gaius,
lower your voice.

- The bottom of the barrel.

- Germanic, correct?

Isn't that what
you told Quintus?

- Don't change the subject.

- Your people surrendered...

I'm surrendering, too.

Your promotion was well-earned.

You will do well without me--
better, even.

- Mm, how?

You're the one
who got me promoted.

- That is untrue.

- Do not play dumb.

You know how this all happened.

- You could say thank you.

- Well, I'm not
going to do that.

- Well, if you can't say it,

then there's something
you could do to show it.

I will pay you if necessary.

- I don't want your money.

What is the favor?

- You have not rehearsed
your speech for me.

- It's nothing.

- They want to honor you

for the great things
you have done here.

Give them a thrill.

- My remarks
will be extemporaneous.

- You are one
of those rare men

who excels in both rehearsed
and unrehearsed speech.

- And you are not guilty
of bias, are you?

- Those are not my words.

- Oh?

Caiaphas said that about you
at our last Shabbat dinner.

- He was just flattering.

- There is no one above
the high priest but God.

What has he to gain from you
by flattery?

He has never complimented
my cooking.

[Nicodemus laughs]

Do you remember,
at that final dinner,

when Eliav sang to Havilah?

She was glowing.

His voice the sweeter
for the child in her womb?

- Brought tears
to my eyes.

- Can you picture
Moshe and Gideon,

their little chins
resting on the table,

when you say
the Eshet Chayil?

That's the way Shabbat
was meant to be:

family knit together
around a table,

my mother's gilded plates,

your grandmother's candlesticks,
may she rest in peace.

- I do miss her.

- If she could see you now,

receiving the highest honor
ever bestowed by our order.

She would burst with pride.

- I remember
the inscription she had

over the doorway of her room:
"Adonai El Roi."

The Lord...

TOGETHER:
...the God Who Sees Me.

- The words of Hagar.

- She always loved
that Hagar was caught up

in something complicated
and fraught,

but not of her choice.

And yet God saw her.

He knew the path
she was forced to take

would not be an easy one.

- When we stumble
onto hard roads,

He finds us and comforts us.

- Or does He call us
to them?

- Persian myrrh
and camphor.

To commemorate
our last day in Capernaum.

- One last day...

[shuddered breaths]

- Nicodemus...

I love our life.

- As do I.

- Take me back to it.

- I...
I've changed my mind.

I-I will--ahem--
prepare my remarks.

I will need a moment.

QUINTUS:
Gaius.

- Praetor.

- Just the man
I've been waiting to see.

Get in here.

- What methods are we using
to quell and disperse mobs

that obstruct traffic?

- Regular patrols,
mounted officers...

when necessary, force--

- Not enough force.

And what use
are mounted officers

if the people have never
seen anyone trampled?

- Praetor?

- Herod's envoy was delayed.

He was a childhood rival--
you were there.

I asked Matthew,

he said show him
some infrastructure plans.

- I hope it was
effective, Dominus.

- Very.

Until Silvius was delayed
by a stampede on his way out.

I had to endure
a very smug lecture.

Don't let that happen again!

- Yes, Praetor.

- Mmm...

I see you are alone.

I assume that means
you've found a replacement

to watch our little friend.

- A new soldier has been
trained and installed.

- Good.

- And I am
reviewing applications

for a new publicanus
for that district.

- What district?

- The collection district
previously assessed by Matthew.

- Why are you doing that?

- Matthew left.

He quit, Dominus.

- What do you mean,
he quit?

Why would you let him quit?

- He is a contractor.

I-I had no recourse.

[object slams]

- Quit to do what?

- He is to become a student.

- Of what?!

Don't make me keep
asking questions, Primi.

- He is to study
the Jewish God.

He left to follow a holy man,
the man from the eastern ghetto.

That--that is all I know.

- Oh, I really
don't like that man.

BIG JAMES:
Brothers!

Extra food from my eema,
and she made more.

She's convinced
we will starve along the way

with six days of walking, huh?

- Three.

- Three?

- Are we going to run
all the way to Jerusalem?

- That won't work for Simon...
he's a terrible runner.

- Well, I have bad shins.

- Well, maybe if you
didn't get in fights

with Abe and Jehosaphat
every week--

- Easy...
easy, boys, huh?

- My fighting days are over.

- Simon, you seem quiet
this morning.

- We have
a long journey ahead.

- Apparently only
half as long as we thought.

- I'll explain later.

Simon,
what troubles you?

- Nothing,
just excited for the trip,

you know, I...
[mumbles]

- You can tell me the truth.

- You're telling me

You don't already know
what's in my head?

- That's a conversation
for another time.

But for now...

- I'm the only one among us
who is married.

- Ah!

So you think I should have
only called single people?

- Of course not.

And I'm glad you didn't.

But...

Eden will be alone
with her eema.

- You're scared
things could get worse

and you wouldn't be there.

- See?

That's what I mean,
You already know anyway.

- Simon, everyone here
knows what you're thinking

most of the time.

It does not take God's wisdom.

Hmm?

[Nicodemus sighs]

- Congratulations on your
profound contribution, Rabbi.

We are forever in your debt.

- Praise Adonai.

SHMUEL: The ceremony
was glorious, teacher.

Your acts of faithfulness
and discernment

have been duly recorded
for all history.

- Thank you, Shmuel.

I am grateful
for your service as well.

- Thank you.

- I foresee you will be
an important leader in our order

for many years to come.

- Maybe not just here
in Capernaum, Rabbi.

Perhaps, I will one day
teach across Judea.

Maybe even in Jerusalem.

- Perhaps you will, Shmuel.

- It's not such a ridiculous
notion, is it, Rabbi?

I have studied under your
venerated tutelage, after all.

As your reputation grows,
so, too, do my own prospects.

- I think it is, perhaps, bold
to assume outcomes.

Our work is for God.

He chooses where it takes us.

- You're right,
as always, Rabbi.

But under your guidance...

I've found a matter of law
I'm deeply passionate about.

One that resonates
with many others,

even as far away as Jerusalem.

- I'm delighted
to hear your fervor, Shmuel.

Tell me, what is it that you've
become so passionate about?

- False prophecy.

When I heard the Man
from Nazareth

tell the paralytic
his sins were forgiven,

I thought,
"“Only God can forgive sins."”

At that very moment, He turned
to me and recited my thoughts

as if reading them
from a scroll.

I felt the same.

Did He use divination,
I wondered?

But it's obvious--of course,
I would think this thought.

He called Himself
the Son of Man--

as if from the prophet Daniel--
here, in the town of my order.

- He comes from Nazareth,
not heaven!

- "...to him was given dominion
and glory and a kingdom,

"that all peoples, nations,
and languages

should serve him--"

- He's simply a man.

I don't understand it
any more than--

- "His dominion
is an everlasting dominion,

"which shall not pass away,

and his kingdom one
that shall not be destroyed."”

The Man claimed to be God
and you said nothing.

I will petition Jerusalem,

requesting permission
to search the archives

for all matters pertaining
to such false prophecy.

Will you oppose
my petition, Rabbi?

The question on the mind

of every man
who reads my account

will have to be,
"What did Nicodemus do?"

- So, it's all about politics
and promotion for you, isn't it?

It's not to serve God.

- On the contrary, Teacher,
it's about the law.

And the law... is God.

If I'm rewarded for that,

it's because I learned
from the very wisest.

- I will not
oppose your petition.

And, Shmuel...

you have learned nothing
from me.

[coughing]

[moans]

- Where is Simon?

Can he build us a fire?

- He's away, Eema.

- [coughs]
Fishing?

- No, something else.

[Dasha coughs]

Lie still.

[coughing continues]

[softly crying]

[Dasha Coughs]

JESUS:
Eden.

- Jesus?

I-I wasn't expecting you here.

- People usually aren't.

- Can I get you
something warm to drink?

I was just stoking the fire...

- You saw it first,
you know?

- What do you mean?

- What I see in Simon.

You were the first person
to notice, when no one else did.

That connects us.

- My mother said
I was drawn to his wildness

and that I would regret it.

I wonder what she would say now?

- We're going into town
to sell these nets,

we'll be right back.

- Stay here a moment, Simon.

- I just want to leave
some extra money behind

for Eden and Eema
while I'm away.

- Put your nets down, and
go sit with your mother-in-law.

[Dasha coughs]

It's all right.

[sighs]

I told Simon to make sacrifices
and leave things behind

in order to follow me.

You are one flesh with Simon.

He cannot make sacrifices
that are not also yours.

You have a role to play
in all of this.

- Do I?

- You will know in time.

[Dasha coughs]

I can't make everything
about this easier for you.

- That wouldn't
be our people's way.

- [laughs] No.

It has not been...

nor will it continue to be.

But I see you.

Do you understand?

I know it is not easy
to be at home

when your husband is out
doing all of... this,

even when you're excited
about it and proud of him.

So, I wouldn't ask you
to do this

without taking care
of a few things.

[Dasha coughs]

- You mean--

- Plus, normal Simon
is difficult enough,

you think I want to travel
with a worried Simon?

[both laugh]

- No.

- No, I do not.

[laughs]

- The fever's spiked.

Her forehead burns my hand
to the touch.

- We should get a doctor.

- There is no need.

♪

Leave her!

[gasps]

- Who are You?

ANDREW: This is Jesus
of Nazareth.

- You've never
met Him before.

- Welcome to
my son-in-law's home.

- Thank you.

- What am I doing lying here--

- You had a terrible fever.

- --and all of you
staring down...

- Dasha, don't--

- No one move.

I'll be right back
with some drinks.

Andrew, be a dear
and come stoke this fire.

[others laughing]

- Coming.

DASHA: Let's see--
rye and butter for Simon,

pomegranate arils...

- Thank You.

- ...goat cheese.

- Thank You.

- Does your friend
like goat cheese?

- Yes,
I love goat cheese.

Maybe I should...
yeah...

see about the goat cheese.

[Eden laughs]

- Thank you.

- Me?
For what?

- For obeying
and following Him.

It brought Him here.

DASHA: Simon!
Nectarines or plums?

[background voices]

- Ha-ha!
You're a liar!

I know you are,
I know that...

[background voices]

SELLER:
We don't serve your kind here.

- And what kind is that?

- You know what you are.

- Well, lucky for you...
[coins clink]

I can serve myself.

You know, to stop me
you'd have to look at me.

[background voices]

- Take down this decree
in Aramaic, Latin and Greek,

so no one can plead ignorance.


"By order of Rome,

"and punishable by detention
and imprisonment...

"religious gatherings outside
the synagogue and Hebrew school

"are strictly prohibited.

[hammer pounding]

"The teacher known
as Jesus of Nazareth

is sought for questioning."

[door creaks open]

[door slams shut]

[woman vocalizing]

[door slams shut]

[woman vocalizing]

♪

♪

♪

- This should be everyone.

- Everyone's here?

- Yes, this is all of us.

- Is there anyone else?

[shaky breaths]

- Look at this.

[coins jingle]

- What is it?

- I don't know,
let's find out.

- Gold.

- A friend of mine
left that for us.

- It's enough for two weeks
of food and lodging.

- You came so close.

- What do you mean?

- We need to go,

if we're to make it to a camp
in Tiberias by nightfall.

- Simon is correct.

Let's go.

[Nicodemus sobs]

- You gonna wear that...
on a trip?

- These are my clothes.

Should I have others?

- Ayy...

[Nicodemus sobs]

[loud knocking]

- Hello.

ALPHEUS:
Elisheva, who is it?

A Roman.

[glass breaking]

- What's wrong?

What happened?

What did it mean--
"Follow me?"

- That is all He said.

Matthew did not hesitate.

- Follow Him where?

- Look, I'm sure
he will come to his senses.

- [laughs]
His senses?

Do you know my son?

- Do you?

At the moment he believes
this Man to be a prophet.

- The Man who healed the
paralytic at Zebedee's house!

- I'd be careful
with that word "healed."

We don't know what sort
of trickery or illusion

may have been involved.

- Matthew has no interest
in illusion.

- Nor in your God...
or so I thought.

- Matthew upended his life
to be with Him.

His wicked life!

- He does not make
decisions lightly.

- That is true.

- When I saw him
two days ago,

he did not seem himself.

But I never would've guessed
that he was preparing for this.

- He asked me
to deliver to you

some of his personal effects.

- Adonai in heaven...

- The key to his house.

- Luxury bought
off the backs of my people...

I will not accept it!

- He suspected as much.

Sell it, give it away,
burn it down--I do not care.

Don't burn it down.

- Hmm.

- The other is just outside.

- Matthew!

- What?

Why?

[dog panting]

- Matthew said
thieves forced you

to close your business?

- Yes, but...

- And you've been taking
long journeys for your business?

- Yes.

I have all my permits.

- Don't you get it?

The roads are dangerous.

Your wife is left
for long periods of time alone.

People with bad intentions
hate him.

- I...

[sighs]

How does it work?

- One last thing--

if you hear from him or receive
any word of his whereabouts,

contact me immediately.

- Is he wanted?

- Not officially.

But if Jesus of Nazareth
returns to Capernaum,

the Praetor would like to...
question Him.

It would be in everyone's best
interest if you contact me.

- We understand.

- And I just want you to kn--

Well...

I know some people that
were mildly fond of your son.

- Mmm.

[both laughing]

[dog whines]

[panting]

- Hungry?

Almost there.

- What city's that?

- Jezreel.

The southernmost town
in Galilee.

From there we veer east
to the Jordan River.

- Rabbi,
where are you going?

- Do you need something?

- This way, friends.

- I'm sorry, but the map shows

that Jezreel is two miles
southeast of here,

and is met by a road
east to the Jordan.

We need to adjust our course
degrees to--

- We're not going
to the Jordan.

We're going through Samaria.

- Are you telling a joke?

- There's a place
I want to stop.

Plus, it makes our journey
shorter by almost half.

- And our odds of violent attack
more likely by double.

- Is that an exact figure?

- Forgive me, Teacher, but
it's safer to go around Samaria

by way of the Jordan
in the Decapolis.

- Did you join me
for safety reasons?

- But, Rabbi,
they're Samaritans.

- Good observation,
Big James.

What's your point?

- Rabbi, these were the people
that profaned our temple

with the dead bones,
they hated us.

- They fought against us
with the Seleucids

in the Maccabean wars.

I've never even spoken
to a Samaritan--

- And we destroyed their temple
years ago.

And none of you here

were present
for any of these things.

Listen...

if we are going to have
a question-and-answer session

every time we do something
you're not used to,

it's going to be a very annoying
time together for all of us.

We'll be fine.

And if we get attacked,

Simon will be happy
to show us what to do.

- Absolutely!

- Right,
so follow me.

♪

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪

- We ate the last
of Salome's bread last night.

- Master, we need to go
into town for food.

- We can use the gold that
was left for us at the fountain.

- Very well.

- There's a town
about a mile west, Sychar.

- You all go.

I'll wait here.

- Someone should stay
with you... in case.

- I'm all right.

Meet me at that well
when you come back.

♪

♪

[wind blowing]

[exhales forcefully]

[woman vocalizing]

- Would you give me a drink?

Did you hear me?

- That bad, huh?

- What?

- You, a Jew,

ask for a drink from me,
a Samaritan?

And a woman?

- I'm sorry.

I should have said,
"Please."

- You know, it's not safe
for you to be alone out here.

- Nor you.

Why haven't you come
with others?

And why so late in the day?

Don't women go to the wells
in the cool of the morning?

- Yeah, well,

none of them
will be seen with me,

so I have to come at noon
in the heat,

as you have
so kindly reminded me.

- Why won't they
be seen with you?

- Long story.

[Water splashing]

- I'd still like
a drink of water,

if you can spare it.

- Amazing what
a parched throat will do.

Aren't I unclean to you?

Won't you be defiled
by this vessel?

- Maybe some of my people
say that about your women,

but I don't.

- Yeah?

And what do you say?

- I say
if you knew Who I am,

you'd be asking Me
for a drink.

- Really.

- And I would give you
living water.

- Would...

except that You have nothing
to draw water with,

and this is a deep well.

Besides,
what do You need from me

if You have Your own supply
of "“living water"”?

- Long story.

- But Jewish water is better
than Samaritan water, hmm?

- That's not what I said.

- Are you a better man
than our ancestor, Jacob,

who dug this well?

Your water is better than his?

- I know Jacob.

And everyone who drinks
this water will thirst again.

But whoever drinks the water
that I give him

will never be thirsty again.

- Wouldn't that be nice.

- The water I give
will become in a person

a spring of water
welling up to eternal life.

Really.

- Yes, really.

- Prove it.

- First, go and call
your husband, then come back.

I will show you both.

- I don't have a husband.

- You are right.

You've had five husbands...

and the man you're living with
now is not your husband.

- Ha-ha-haa!

I see.

You're a prophet.

You're here to preach at me.

- No.

- Usually the one good thing
about coming here alone

is I can escape
being condemned.

- I'm not here to condemn you.

- I've made mistakes...
too many.

But it's men like you who have
made it impossible for me

to do anything about it.

- How?

- Our ancestors worshipped
on this mountain,

but you Jews insist Jerusalem is
the only place for true worship.

- They say that
because the temple is there.

- Yeah, exactly
where we're not allowed.

- I'm here
to break those barriers.

And the time is coming
when neither on this mountain

nor in Jerusalem
will you worship the Father.

- So where am I supposed to go
when I need God?

I've never received anything
from God,

but I couldn't thank Him
even if I did.

- Anywhere.

God is spirit.

And the time is coming,
and is now here,

that it won't matter
where you worship,

but only that you do it
in spirit and truth.

Heart and mind.

That--that is
the kind of worshiper

He's looking for.

It won't matter
where you're from...

or what you've done.

Do you believe what
I'm telling you?

- Until the Messiah comes,

and explains everything
and sorts this mess out,

including me,
I don't trust in anyone.

- You're wrong

when you say that you've never
received anything from God.

This Messiah you speak of.

I am He.

The first one was named Ramin.

You were a woman of purity
who was excited to be married,

but he wasn't a good man.

He hurt you,

and it made you
question marriage

and even the practice
of your faith.

- Stop it.

- The second was Farzad.

On your wedding night
his skin smelled like oranges,

and to this day,

every time you pass by
the oranges in the market,

you feel guilty for leaving him,

because he was the only truly
godly man you've been with,

but you felt unworthy.

- Why are you doing this?

- I have not revealed Myself
to the public

as the Messiah.

You are the first.

It would be good
if you believed Me.

- You picked
the wrong person.

- I came to Samaria
just to meet you.

[woman sobs]

Do you think it's an accident

that I'm here in the middle
of the day?

- [sobs]
I am rejected by others.

- I know...

but not by the Messiah.

- And you know
these things

because you are
the Christ.

- I'm going
to tell everyone.

- I was counting on it.

- [laughing]
Spirit and truth?

- Spirit and truth.

- It won't be all
about mountains or temples?

- Soon...
just the heart.

- You promise?

- I promise.

- This Man told me
everything I've done!

Oh, He must be the Christ!

[laughing]

- Hey, wait!

[woman laughs]

- Your water!

- You forgot your--

- Come see a Man who told me
everything I ever did!

[Jesus laughing]

- Uh, Rabbi, we got food;
what would You like?

- Ah... I have food to eat
that you do not know about.

- Who got You food?

- Wait a minute.

You told her?

- Mm-hmm.

- And she can tell others?

- What food?

- My food is to do the will
of Him who sent Me

and to accomplish His work.

- You told her Who you are?

- Mm-hmm.

-So does that mean...

- It means we're going
to stay here for a couple days.

It's been a long time
of sowing,

but the fields
are ripe for harvest.

- And so, it's time?

- Let's go.

PETER:
Yes!!!

[laughing]

♪

♪ Throw me like a stone
in the water ♪

♪ Watch the mud rise up

♪

♪ Dress me like a lamb
for the slaughter ♪

♪ Pour me in your cup

♪ Should've known
we'd bring trouble ♪

♪ Trouble gonna find you here

♪

♪ Trouble

♪

♪ Trouble ♪

♪

♪

[men vocalizing]

♪

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪

[man vocalizing]

♪

[man vocalizing]

♪


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.


---
Forever Dreaming Transcripts
 
 
Members 
Help Desk View the latest post
Board Updates, Members Support, Editors Information & Community Discussions.
18 Topics69 Posts
Last post View the latest post 12/03/25 22:01
TV Shows 
A View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
12859 Topics12861 Posts
Last post 05x07 - Goofgirl
View the latest post 12/14/25 08:12
B View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
16624 Topics16625 Posts
Last post 01x08 - In the Name of the Fa…
View the latest post 12/13/25 10:57
C View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
9903 Topics9905 Posts
Last post 15x08 - The Heat Beneath Your…
View the latest post 12/13/25 19:22
D View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
12131 Topics12131 Posts
Last post 01x08 - What Will Survive
View the latest post 12/10/25 08:48
E View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
3506 Topics3506 Posts
Last post 03x09 - Glamazon
View the latest post 12/14/25 08:21
F View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
8371 Topics8371 Posts
Last post 04x08 - Fresh Start
View the latest post 12/14/25 08:10
G View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
8608 Topics8729 Posts
Last post 05x08 - The Life and Times of…
View the latest post 12/13/25 08:08
H View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
8436 Topics8436 Posts
Last post 02x05 - Mouse in the House
View the latest post 12/13/25 08:10
I View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
3485 Topics3485 Posts
Last post 01x12 - Episode 12
View the latest post 12/12/25 19:16
J View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
2571 Topics2571 Posts
Last post 01x10 - Episode 10
View the latest post 12/09/25 17:58
K View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
3326 Topics3326 Posts
Last post 03x07 - Episode 7
View the latest post 12/13/25 09:15
L View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
9255 Topics9255 Posts
Last post 02x05 - The Pirate Dinner
View the latest post 12/14/25 08:27
M View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
12884 Topics12884 Posts
Last post 02x08 - Call It a Christmas G…
View the latest post 12/12/25 10:54
N View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
6452 Topics6452 Posts
Last post 03x06 - Narco Wars: Opioid Ap…
View the latest post 12/10/25 09:09
O View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
4247 Topics4247 Posts
Last post 04x12 - Should Odd Acquaintan…
View the latest post 12/13/25 14:52
P View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
8155 Topics8155 Posts
Last post 03x06 - Asset Forfeiture
View the latest post 12/14/25 08:18
Q View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
1224 Topics1224 Posts
Last post 01x78 - Episode 78
View the latest post 09/22/25 08:04
R View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
7102 Topics7102 Posts
Last post 01x08 - The True Price of Def…
View the latest post 12/14/25 08:24
S View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
19074 Topics19074 Posts
Last post 01x08 - Death and Taxes
View the latest post 12/13/25 10:59
T View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
8475 Topics8475 Posts
Last post 01x03 - The Wright Brothers a…
View the latest post 12/12/25 19:20
U View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
1236 Topics1236 Posts
Last post 01x02 - Episode 2
View the latest post 11/28/25 10:09
V View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
2075 Topics2075 Posts
Last post 03x30 - We've Lost a Train
View the latest post 11/30/25 09:19
W View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
6758 Topics6758 Posts
Last post 01x12 - Through Rain, Sun, Sn…
View the latest post 12/13/25 14:27
X View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
823 Topics823 Posts
Last post 01x24 - Tsuioku
View the latest post 09/29/25 07:50
Y View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
2519 Topics2519 Posts
Last post 02x24 - Towa ni tsuzuku mirai
View the latest post 09/22/25 17:04
Z View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
936 Topics936 Posts
Last post 02x12 - Juneteenth
View the latest post 12/01/25 19:33
# View the latest post
Some current or popular TV episode scripts:
2786 Topics2786 Posts
Last post 09x06 - Family History
View the latest post 11/15/25 17:35
Movies 
Anime View the latest post
Anime, Manga Movie Collection.
717 Topics718 Posts
Last post Chainsaw Man - The Movie: Rez…
View the latest post 12/06/25 23:56
Based on TV shows View the latest post
Movies which are prequels, sequels or based upon the TV series.
224 Topics223 Posts
Last post Everybody Loves Raymond: 30th…
View the latest post 11/27/25 17:56
Children & Family View the latest post
Children/Family Movie Collection.
(Disney/Pixar/Illumination/Dreamworks/Animated/etc)
1869 Topics1870 Posts
Last post Diary of A Wimpy Kid: The Las…
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:54
Christmas & New Year's View the latest post
Christmas & New Years movies collection.
2013 Topics2013 Posts
Last post Night My Dad Saved Christmas …
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:59
Coffee & Donuts View the latest post
Cops/Detective/Court/Procedural Movie Collection.
128 Topics128 Posts
Last post Shadow's Edge, The (2025)
View the latest post 11/27/25 18:43
Cowboys & Indians View the latest post
Westerns Movie Collection.
(Revisionist, Spagetti, Outlaw, Empire, Marshal)
238 Topics238 Posts
Last post A Town Called Purgatory (2025)
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:43
Documentaries View the latest post
Curious minds want to know... Documentary Movie collection.
1292 Topics1296 Posts
Last post Absolutely Fabulous: Inside O…
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:58
Easter/Spiritual View the latest post
Easter, Religious/Spiritual Movie Collection.
564 Topics564 Posts
Last post Book of Joshua, Walls of Jeri…
View the latest post 11/16/25 17:13
Echo View the latest post
Historical & Biography Movie Collection.
(Alternate History/Period Piece/Biopic/Bhakti/etc.)
164 Topics164 Posts
Last post 100 Nights of Hero (2025)
View the latest post 12/07/25 23:00
Gaming View the latest post
Movie Collection based off Video Games.
149 Topics149 Posts
Last post Cyberpunk 2077: The Movie (20…
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:36
Halloween/Horror View the latest post
Ghosts, Monsters, Vampires, Werewolves, and Witches oh my! Halloween/Horror Movie Collection.
(Satanic, Slasher, Splatter, Cannibal, Occult, Giallo, Chinese/German Underground/Japanese/Korean/New French Extremity Horror etc.)
4953 Topics4951 Posts
Last post Pig Hill (2025)
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:45
High School Reading View the latest post
Required high school reading you'd rather read the movie script. Movie Collection.
83 Topics83 Posts
Last post Heartbreak Kid, The (1972)
View the latest post 02/17/21 10:14
It's the EOTW as we know it...♪♪ View the latest post
History/Civil Wars, Cold w*r, WWI, WWII, Rebellions, Revolutions and more! w*r movies collection.
532 Topics532 Posts
Last post White Bird (2023)
View the latest post 12/11/25 07:48
Jack-in-the-box View the latest post
Pop Goes the Weasel?! Thriller & Mystery Movie Collection.
(Psychological/Film Noir/Mystery/etc.)
397 Topics397 Posts
Last post Stephen (2025)
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:56
Laugh A Little View the latest post
Comedy Movie Collection.
(Buddy/Dark/Black/Parody/Screwball/Slapstick/Sketch/Satire/Spoof/Mock/Comedians/etc.)
939 Topics939 Posts
Last post Fackham Hall (2025)
View the latest post 12/07/25 23:02
Lights, Camera, Action! View the latest post
Action/Adventure Movie collection.
(Disaster/Martial Arts/Spy/Heroic Bloodshed/Wuxia/Pirate/Samurai/etc.)
691 Topics691 Posts
Last post Turbulence (2025)
View the latest post 12/06/25 23:54
Little Green Men View the latest post
Sci-Fi Movie collection.
(Space, Time-travel, Futuristic, Aliens, Dystopian, Tech noir, Utopian, Parallel Universe, etc.)
1441 Topics1441 Posts
Last post Bureau 749 (2024)
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:38
Melting Pot/Everything Else View the latest post
Random Movies/Miscellaneous Movies Collection.
(Fantasy, Experimental, Exploitation, Silent, Slice of Life, Narratives)
462 Topics462 Posts
Last post Hallowed Knight, The (2024)
View the latest post 10/30/25 16:10
Old Time Classics View the latest post
The older Classic's that just won't die. Movies from before 1960's.
2281 Topics2281 Posts
Last post Four Frightened People (1934)
View the latest post 09/12/25 20:53
Peanuts & Cracker Jacks View the latest post
Sports Movie Collection.
(Baseball, Football, Lacrosse, Basketball, Hockey, Boxing, etc.)
192 Topics193 Posts
Last post Stan the Man (2025)
View the latest post 11/30/25 16:51
Russian Roulette View the latest post
Bank robberies, Heists & Crime Movie Collection.
(Caper, Vigilante, Neo/Nordic/Domestic Noir, Mafia, Mystery, etc.)
566 Topics566 Posts
Last post Untouchables, The (1987)
View the latest post 11/27/25 22:06
Sing A Song.. ♪♪ View the latest post
Musicals/Concerts Movie Collection.
163 Topics163 Posts
Last post Lali: La que le gana al tiemp…
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:52
St. Patrick's Day/Irish View the latest post
St. Patrick's Day & Irish Movie Collection.
219 Topics219 Posts
Last post Perrier's Bounty
View the latest post 06/04/25 11:05
Superhero's View the latest post
Batman, Superman, Avengers.. etc.. Movie Collection.
391 Topics433 Posts
Last post Marvel's Spidey and Iron Man:…
View the latest post 11/04/25 18:15
Thanksgiving/All that Drama View the latest post
Thanksgiving & Drama Movie Collection.
(Philosophical/Docudrama/Melodrama/Psychological/Anthropological/Teen/etc.)
1573 Topics1573 Posts
Last post Love After Holidays (2025)
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:55
Valentine/Romance View the latest post
Romance Movie Collection.
(Valentines Day, Hot, Steamy, Sexual, Erotic, etc.)
2354 Topics2351 Posts
Last post Girlfriend, The (2025)
View the latest post 12/07/25 22:50
Statistics
Who is online
In total there are 1274 users online :: 4 registered, 2 hidden and 1268 guests (based on users active over the past 30 minutes)
Most users ever online was 22156 on 07/18/25 21:09
 
Statistics
Total posts 218484 • Total topics 217872 • Total members 2670 • Our newest member gogosx52


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.


The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
