01x05 - The Wedding Gift

[♪ musical flourish ]

[market noise]

[no audio]

- Please!
Have you seen--

- Why are you alone,
woman?

- --my son!
He'’s only , He's--

- I see kids all over.

It'’s Jerusalem.

You from here?

- No, we came
for the Passover Feast.

We thought He was
in the caravan.

- The feast
was three days ago!

- Jesus?!?!

Jesus?!?!

JOSEPH:
Mary?!

JESUS:
Eema?

[Mary panting]

- We looked everywhere,
day and night!

We were so scared!

JOSEPH:
I told Him;

He'’s okay.

- Why is everyone
so upset?

- Mary,
He was in the--

- You were supposed to be
riding in the caravan

with Uncle Abijah!

- I was supposed
to be with my Father.

- Then why weren't you?!

- I was.

- You were in the temple?

JOSEPH:
It was incredible, Mary.

You should have seen Him.

He was teaching
when I found Him.

The rabbis, the scribes,
the scholars...

They could not
believe their ears.

They barely let us leave.

- Didn't you know I must be
in my Father'’s house?

- It'’s too early
for all... this.

- If not now,
when?

- Just help us get through
all this with you.

Please.

- Maybe we
should get going

before they make
a formal inquiry, hmm?

[chuckles]

- Jesus...

please don't do that again,
huh?

- Yes, Abba.

May I read?

- Well see, hmm?

Come, now,
we've got a long journey.

JOSEPH:
What are you going to do

for your mother
for this transgression, huh?

I'm going to make Him
rub your feet.

JESUS:
Abba!

[woman vocalizing]

♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water.

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪ Oh, child...

♪ Walk on the water.

♪ Got no trouble.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

[birds singing]

♪

[chuckles]

MARY MOTHER:
Dinah!

- Mary?!

[laughing]

What are you doing here?!

- I heard someone
is celebrating a marriage.

- I mean so early.

- I came here to help.

- All the way
from Nazareth?

You must've been riding
in the dark...

- When your best friend
is the mother of the groom,

you'll be early
for the feast, too.

[happy cry]

Now, c'mon.

Give me a broom
or something.

- Okay...
okay, come on!

[laughing]

- Miracles?

- Yes, John.

Signs and wonders.

- From who?

- You.

[John scoffs]

- Are you adding those
to my list of infractions?

Only a Pharisee.

You would've labeled Moses
a lunatic

for talking to a shrub.

- Do you consider yourself
to be like Moses?

[sigh]

[heavy sigh]

Tell me about
your ministry.

- Do you remember when Caesar
traveled through Judea?

- Yes.

- He sent all these men
to clear logs and debris

for the coming king.

"“Make straight the way
for the king!"” they'd shout.

"“Prepare the way!"”

- The roads in Jerusalem
do not have the same problem,

but I remember the visit.

- I had to move.

Romans aren't kind
to the homeless.

Lost all my possessions.

- Many in Jerusalem
were frightened as well.

- Oh, they were lucky
to have you to comfort them.

For a price, of course.

- Should we be clearing
the road for you, John?

[scoffs] Is that the point
of this story?

- I don't like your frock.

The cost
of the vestments alone

could feed three children
in Nazareth for a month.

- Do you hail
from Nazareth?

- Mm-hmm.

And Jericho, and Bethlehem,

Jaffa, Hebron...

- I see.

Well, you have
a new home now.

Whatever your mission was,
I hope you've completed it.

- I thought you were here
to ask about miracles.

- But first,

I wanted to tell you
of a miracle that I've seen...

but cannot comprehend.

- And then
to make accusations.

- This is pointless.

Clearly, you are not
a frothing madman,

but every bit
as unreasonable.

- You imprison me

and accuse me of being
ill-tempered about it?

- I am not your captor.

Do you not understand?

This is a Roman cell.

I came to speak to the warden
on your behalf.

- On my behalf?

Why are you really here,
old man?

- The official reason?

You are a Jewish citizen.

If you have broken
Jewish law,

it sets a dangerous precedent
to allow Rome to adjudicate.

- Ahhh.

And the real reason?

[sighs]

- The truth?

I am far from home.

I am looking in places
I would never go because...

I am searching
for an explanation

for something
I cannot unsee.

- No one else
knows you're here...

Tell me from the beginning.

[crushing sounds]

- Eden.

We need to talk.

- So I hear.

- What have you heard?

- Nothing that makes sense.

[sighs]

Last night
you told me the truth.

Let's continue with that.

- So... I worked for hours
last night

and couldn't even catch
one fish the entire night.

And then Andrew and the boys
showed up--

thank you for that,
by the way--

and none of us could catch
one fish the entire night,

it was horrible.

And this morning, we finally
gave up and we went to shore,

but there was this teacher
on shore,

and Andrew knew who He was,
but I'll talk about that later.

He told me to cast
one more time,

which made no sense,
but I did it anyway,

because of the way
He-He looked at me.

And then so many fish
showed up.

They were pouring
into the boat.

So many kept coming that Zebedee
ended up filling both our boats,

enough to pay off
the whole debt.

- I...

uh... what?

- I know.

- Why don't you
seem happy?

- This is hard to explain...

- More than
what you just told me?

- It's like the story
of Elijah and Elisha.

- Yes?

- Elisha was plowing
with yoke of oxen,

when Elijah the prophet
just walked up

and threw his cloak over him,
right?

A calling to follow him.

- And without delay,
Elisha slaughtered the oxen,

burned the plow,
and left everything behind.

- Yes!

The Teacher...

Andrew told me but I didn't
believe him at first...

He's the Messiah.

I know it sounds impossible,
but I saw it with my own eyes:

He made boatfuls of fish
appear out of nowhere,

and the words He spoke.

The one John told Andrew
was the Lamb of God

who takes away the sin
of the world.

It was Him.

And then He called me
to follow Him.

And Andrew,
James, and John.

To go where He goes
and learn from Him.

And He said I wouldn't be
a fisherman anymore

but that I would
catch people instead.

I don't even know
what that means,

but I'm sure what I saw.

He's the one we've been
waiting for all our lives.

And...

I want to quit fishing
and leave the sea behind to go.

I know, I know, I know
it makes no sense,

and I knew it would
make you upset,

all I can tell you is
if this--

- I'm not upset.

Oh, why would I be upset?

Come here...
come here.

[deliberate]
This is the man that I married.

- And you believe me?

- You couldn't
make this up.

[laughing]

Of course,
He chose you.

- I don't know why He did.

I tried to tell Him
I'm a sinful man.

- Everyone is sinful.

- I don't know
what this means,

I don't know yet
how I'm going to provide.

- I don't care
about that.

- Then why are you crying?

- Because someone
finally sees in you

what I've always seen...

you're more than
a fisherman.

- You know, I--
I will travel sometimes,

I don't want you
to feel abandoned.

- You have to go
with Him.

How could I
feel abandoned?

I feel saved!

- Eden... Eden,
it's not going to be easy.

- When have we ever
had anything easy?

[chuckles]

That's not our people's way.

[laughing]

Ah.

So, are you going
to help me?

- Well, I actually could
watch you do that all day.

- Wash your feet.

- We leave for Cana today.

- What's in Cana?

- A wedding.

- What does a wedding
have to do

with the liberation of Israel?

- I'm about to find out.

But, c'mon,
don't you think our wedding

was a kind of...
liberation?

- From your fear
that I would be bald.

- Well, my father's
nearly blind.

[laughing]

EDEN:
Remember how cold it was?

- Yeah.

- Remember Andrew's toast?

Remember the rabbi
lost his place?

- No.

- What?!

He made everyone stand up
and "Please be seated,"

twice in a row;
you don't remember?

- What I will remember
for the rest of my life

is lifting your veil.

I'd fight tigers
for that memory.

- You'd fight tigers?

- Well, unless it was as cold
as our wedding day,

right before the sun
came up

and you got tangled
in our chuppah.

[laughing]

- You do remember!

[wine trickling]

- The lamb, it will be there
before or after we arrive?

- After.

They don't have
a good place to keep it

so I didn't want it there
too early.

- But are they going
to show up--

- With plenty of time
for you to roast it your way.

Yes.

[donkey brays]

- Wait... there's
only three jars.

- Yes, that's
what they asked for.

- Ramah, I'm very concerned we
won't be able to get all three

all the way to Cana intact.

I told you we needed four
from your vineyard to be safe.

- I told you...

the wedding family
can't afford it.

- I would've paid you
out of my own pocket.

- Thomas.

That would almost erase
your whole margin,

why would you do that?

- I-I mean...
we're a team, right?

- Well, I think everything
will arrive perfectly intact,

especially with
how carefully you drive.

- I just want to be
certain that--

- Thomas.

It's going to be fine.

- I'm glad
you got some hired help.

There's much to do.

- Oh, Tirza?

She's a neighbor.

We couldn't afford anyone extra,
so she volunteered--

on her only day off.

- Hmm, and here I was,

thinking how lucky you are
to have me.

[laughing]

- My son
just married his love

and I'm surrounded by friends.

Couldn't be luckier.

[chuckling]

- What is she like?

- Oh, Sarah is lovely
and respectful and just...

wonderful.

Her parents, Helah and Abner,
are not so convinced.

- About Asher?

- About Rafi and me
as in-laws.

The father especially.

But he's very successful
and influential,

so, maybe it will be good
for the kids' future...

- You don't have to grovel
to anybody, Dinah.

They'll come around.

- I should go find Rafi.

[birds chirping]

- I do appreciate it.

You heard me tell Eden
how grateful I was.

- I heard your words.

But I also watched
your movements.

- I don't know
what to do with it!

I don't go on long trips.

Do I hold it like this?

If I had a stick,

I could sling it
over my shoulder.

[Simon humming]

- We'll see
what the others do.

- What if they
didn't pack lunch?

Will we look stupid?

What if it comes off
as ungrateful?

- I don't know.

Maybe it'll look like we never
traveled with the Messiah before

and we don't know
what we're doing.

- I'm a bit nervous.

- Come on,
don't be nervous.

If you're nervous,
I'll come on too strong.

- Don't tell me
you're not nervous.

- I said I was.

- No, you said,
if I'm nervous--

- I know what I said.

I don't want
to let Him down.

- I don't want
to do it wrong.

- C'mon, we'll probably
both do it wrong.

It's like fishing.

Remember when Dad taught us?

- Dad didn't
teach anything.

We just sat there.

- And watched.

And then it was our turn
and we made our own mistakes.

Can you believe this?

THADDEUS:
Well, you guys are great.

TOGETHER:
Hello.

- Have you been here
long?

- Oh, yeah.

JESUS:
Perfect day for a wedding, huh?

- Master.

JESUS:
Simon, Andrew,

Mary, James, John,
Thaddeus.

But where is...

[thud]
- Oh!

- Uh-oh!

[laughing]

JESUS:
Raining figs.

- Figs for the journey.

- Ah! We won't even need
to stop for lunch.

Thank you, James.

- Yes, Master?

- Ahh, two Jameses.

How will we solve this dilemma?

- Well, what if, uh...

...I go by Big James?

- Is that acceptable to you,
young James?

- Yes, I think
that's fair, Master.

- And a sense
of justice, too, huh?

Then it's settled.

Now, to the road,
my friends.

The bride and groom await!

- Huh...

I think...

I think it might be a little
roomier on this side.

- Perfect.

- No?

- Yeah, no,
it's perfect.

And sturdy.

- Let me speak
with the carpenter.

I know their language.

- It will be okay.

Will you help me decorate it?

- Dinah, please,
let me do this for you.

- Mary, I love you, but Rafi
and I got what we paid for.

I'm embarrassed how few timbers
we could offer.

- That's no reason
to settle.

- Who's settling?

It will be perfect.

There are many other things
to do today, Mary.

You said so yourself.

- Always the bright side.

- Someone has to be.

[chuckling]

- Will you start on
gathering more flowers?

- Of course.

- Shalom, Helah.

- Dinah.

- I'm delighted to share
this special day.

Is Abner here?

I'd love to tell Rafi

we have time for
a special prayer today.

- Abner sent me on ahead.

He'll come with friends
before the ceremony.

He asked me
to select his table.

- Well, we have arrangements
for everyone's seating already.

- Abner likes things
his way.

I'm here to see
that they are.

- Even at our children's
wedding feast?

- Dinah,
Abner is set in his ways.

It's not personal.

- Well, it should be!

- On certain
important occasions,

I've been able
to prevail on him.

- I hope this
is important enough.

- Dinah--

Sarah is unwavering
in her love for your family.

- We love Sarah...
and all of you, very much.

- Sarah knows you do.

The chuppah's crooked.

- Hmm.

- I know that look.

- Master?

- Yes, Simon?

- I was thinking...

If this wedding
is worth the journey for You,

who has so much to do--

- Hmm.

- perhaps it is also worth the
journey to many wealthy Jews.

- You believe important and
powerful Hebrews may be there?

- Possibly.

- You're very keen,
Simon.

In fact, the most important
and powerful person I know

will be there.

- Yeah?

- My mother.

- Isn't Your mother
from Nazareth?

- You should announce us
after the guests, right?

There'll be no Romans,

seems like the perfect place
to gather more followers,

get this whole thing moving.

- It's not My special day,
Simon.

It's the special day
of the couple,

Asher and Sarah.

- They are blessed to have You
at their wedding.

Do they know what
a remarkable thing it is?

- Well, considering that
I was the clumsy teenager

who cracked My head open
at Asher's when he was a child,

I don't think
he finds Me remarkable.

Did you think much
of your childhood friends?

- No,
he didn't have any.

- That's not true!

- I stand corrected--
he had me.

Compulsory service.

- I don't remember kids

exactly lining up
around the block--

- Mary?

Did you think that having
brothers would be like this?

- I always wanted brothers
as a little girl.

- Soon you'll have ,
then tell me how you like it.

- Twelve?

- You'll see.

Ah, we're getting close now.

Cana is just over
the next rise.

MARY MOTHER
Well, we had a wedding,

it just wasn't
like everyone else's.

- Why not?

- You know why.

- I would have gone.

- I know.

Ah, if Joseph were here today

he would be so proud
of you and Rafi.

So happy for you.

- You don't think
I'm overdoing it?

- I would have said so.

- It's just that Helah's canopy
for their son's feast

had exquisite
and extravagant--

- It doesn't even matter.

Sarah and Asher
will love it.

- Have you heard from
your special guest?

- He's coming.

- Ohhh.

- He may bring
several others.

Is that okay?

- Jesus can bring
everybody He wants.

I haven't seen Him in ages.

How is He?

- He's good.

He's... [sigh]

He's always good.

- I'm ecstatic for you.

I imagine
He's a fine craftsman.

- When He's not working...

He has a calling.

I seldom know
where it will take Him.

He's bringing His students.

- Hmm.

I bet He's handsome.

- Mm.

- I bet He is!

[laughing]

- Dinah...
Dinah, they're here!

- Moment of truth.

I made Rafi spend everything
we had left for good wine,

so wish me luck.

- You must be Thomas.

I am Rafi,
and this is my wife, Dinah.

- Many blessings to you
on this joyous day.

And may I present the finest,
most beautiful vintner

in all of Galilee--
Ramah bat Kafni

of the Kafni Vineyards
on the plains of Sharon.

- It is an honor
to meet you at last.

You will give my regards to the
old scoundrel upon your return.

[laughing]

Ramah is the daughter
of my old friend, Kaf.

- The wine is here on time.

A good start to a joyous day!

- Of course.

Thomas is never late.

My father sends his
warmest regards... with this.

Pressed in the time
Augustus died.

Cut with seawater,
honey from Mount Hermon,

black pepper,
and pine from Tyre.

- Divine!

- I certainly
won't refuse that.

Blessed are you, Lord our God,
King of the universe,

who brings forth
the fruit of the vine.

Oh, my...

Thank heaven
on Asher's day.

Abner and Helah will be pleased.

And maybe a little jealous even.

- Abner and Helah...

I'm now in debt because of wine
for Abner and Helah...

- Hush.

How much is there?

Of the special vintage,
there's two amphorae

and one of a lesser.

Of course we intend
to serve the best wine first,

while the guests are fresh.

- Later, when everyone
is stuffed and senses dulled,

we'll serve the remaining jar.

Do you understand?

- Yes, son.

It's the oldest trick
in the book.

We are in good hands!

- And I assume the head count
is still the same,

or so at a time
during the week?

- Is it?

- I'm asking.

- I'm sure it's right.

- Perfect.

Where would you like us
to set up?

- This way,

the Master of the Banquet
will walk you through it.

[receding footsteps]

- Knock, knock,
can we come in?

Hi Eema!
Ohhhh, how are you?

I've missed you.

- I have missed You!

Look at you!

It's been a while;
have you been eating?

- I have been eating.

These people have been
helping me to eat, so--

-Hi!
How are you?

Are you students?

- My students.

- I'm James.

JOHN THE BAPTIST:
Multiple demons?

NICODEMUS:
I saw it myself.

They jeered at me
from inside her mouth.

Nothing that could be done
for her, short of a miracle.

- And she won't say
who restored her?

- He did not reveal
His name to her.

[shuddered breaths]

What?
What?!

- It has begun!

- What has?

- If He's healing
in secret now,

the public signs
cannot be far off.

- Public signs?
What--

You know Him?

- You could say that.

- What's His name?

"“Who has ascended into heaven
and come back down?"”

- I asked His name!

"“--Who has gathered the wind
in his fists?"”

- Don't quote Solomon to me,
you wild mongrel--

- "“Who has wrapped up the waters
in a garment?"”

Finish it.

- No,
you answer me first!

- Teacher of Israel,

finish the oracle of Agur,
son of Jakeh-

"“Who has established
all the ends of the earth?"”

TOGETHER:
"What is his name..."”

- "“..and what is the name
of his son?"”

- Surely you know.

- You are careless
with Torah.

God does not have a son,
except Israel.

Israel is His only son.

All of us.

- Suit yourself.

- You know, they'll
put a man to death

for blasphemy like that.

- Who will?
You?

It'd be a terrible precedent
for Rome to adjudicate.

- I should never
have come here.

- All your life
you've been asleep!

"“Make straight
the way for the King!"”

He is here
to awaken the earth...

but some will not
want to waken.

They're in love
with the dark.

I wonder which one
you'll be.

- Now, if this Man
is anything like you believe,

or if He exists at all,
you should leave this region.

Your presence alone
puts Him in danger.

- If you think He needs
my help...

you've heard nothing.

[shuddered breaths]

THOMAS:
When the song is over,

bring out the olives
and cheeses.

Set them on the long table

in between the loaves of bread
and the cucumbers.

[Group singing in background]

CONGREGATION:
♪ There shall be heard again

♪ In the cities of Judah,

♪ And in the streets
of Jerusalem. ♪

♪ There shall be heard again

♪ In the cities of Judah,

♪ And in the streets
of Jerusalem. ♪

- Thomas!

- In a moment.

- Thomas!

- Okay, okay.

Hi.

- Am I going mad or has
been the magic number all along?


- The head count?

Why, are we over?

They always do this,
I brought food enough for more.

- The last count was .

- You made a mistake.

- Maybe by a few.

Even if I'm off by ,
the wine...

- I did advocate
for a fourth...

but three
is still enough for .

CONGREGATION:
♪ A voice of joy,

♪ And a voice of gladness,

♪ The voice of the bridegroom,
the voice of the bride. ♪

♪ A voice of joy,

♪ And a voice of gladness,

♪ The voice of the bridegroom,
and the voice of the bride. ♪

[cheers & applause]

MASTER OF THE BANQUET:
Blessed are You,

Lord our God,

King of the universe,

Who brings forth
the fruit of the vine.

[crowd responds]

♪

[cheers & applause]

- Lighten your pours,
like this...

three quarters full.

If they ask for more,
tell them you'll be right back,

but guess what?

You won't be.

Understand?

Go.

Well,

the guests seem happy so far,

the servants do not.

How are we doing?

- Nothing to worry about.

You are one of
the finest banquet masters

we have ever seen.

Keep up the good work.

- Hmm.
[chuckles]

[both sigh]

- What now?

- I have an idea.

DINAH:
Thanks so much for coming.

- Ah,
thank you for coming.

- Rafi!

Dinah!

- Shalom!

- Hello, Abner.

- Well...

this is the best party
I've been to in a long while.

[laughs]

Mwah! Mwah!
Mwah!

- You honor us,
Abner.

We are blessed to have
two children so in love.

- Ah, I'm happy, too.

I'll be honest, I was not
always happy about this,

you may not have known that.

- Yes, we know.

- You were born
in Nazareth, Dinah.

Rafi, your people
are travelers...

and your trade,
Rafi,

it hasn't brought you
much success.

And while Asher seems a nice
young man, he has not yet--

- Yes, Abner,
we get it.

- I don't mean to insult.

My family have been powerful
traders in this region

for years.

I believe success has made
my generation arrogant.

I lost my train of thought.

I thought you said
this was crooked.

Looks fine to me.

And this wine is delicious!

I must know the vineyard.

[laughing]

- Purification water.

There's some left in these.

- Dilute the wine?

People will notice.

Whispers will spread.

- If they did, I feel like
this family would die of shame.

- What about us?

We'd be ruined.

- It's not a great option,
I agree.

So, help me think.

- We could... serve the guests
extra date cakes,

oversalt the food.

Make them thirst for water...

[sighs]
I don't know.

This is humiliating.

- Let's keep looking.

[receding footsteps]

[woman vocalizing]

♪

♪

[no audio]

♪

- They have no idea
who sits before them.

[cups clatter]

[laughing]

- To be a child again,
yes?

- Hmm.

I think
we're the lucky ones.

They have to go home
with their parents tonight.

We get to stay with Him
and His mother.

- Where will that be?

- Who knows?

With Him, I have learned to stop
worrying about those things.

- I haven't.

It's cold in this region.

- You think He would
let you freeze?

- My brother
has many worries.

I keep reminding him of when
our abba taught us to fish.

We just sat there and watched
until we became fisherman.

- Mm.

We will watch Him...

and watch and watch
and watch...

forever, I think.

- I'm going
to get more wine.

- Get two!

[laughing]

I don't even know
why I'm here.

It's usually the students
that choose the rabbi,

not the other way around.

And I'm not even a student.

- Neither was I.

Thaddeus introduced me to Him.

- How did you meet?

- On a construction job
in Bethsaida.

He hasn't exactly been picking
the best and brightest students.

SIMON:
Wait.

He works?

- Well,
until recently.

He is not
a professional rabbi.

- Yeah, but, I thought
He has no home and no job.

- No permanent home.

- He's a stonemason,
like you?

- Well, a craftsman.

He taught as well,
and He asked me to follow Him.

He said He was building
a kingdom,

a fortress
stronger than stone.

I believed Him.

- What were you building
in Bethsaida?

- A... public amenity.

- An aqueduct?

- No, uh, something...
humbler.

- What then, man?

- It's not proper to say
in front of a woman.

- I have seen
and heard things

that would turn your blood
to ice.

- A latrine?

Wait, ice?

- Yes.

- Our Master...
building a privy!

THADDEUS:
A job is a job.

I was cutting stone
for the retaining wall.

He was building a ramp
of cedar planks

so the crippled and the elderly
could get to it

without climbing
the steep stairs.

- Why didn't He heal them

so they could mount the steps
themselves?

- He's always saying
His time has not yet come.

- But calling your name,
the catch of fish...

Why was it His time for miracles
then and not others?

- Because those were private,

He hasn't shown His signs
to others publicly yet.

- What's keeping Him
from making His ministry public?

- The wind blows to the south
or to the east

and you cannot say why.

- A latrine.

[laughing]

Yeah, we... we'd better not
spread that around.

- He doesn't hide
where He's from.

- Well,
don't tell Andrew.

That will...
yeah, he'll be surprised.

MASTER OF THE BANQUET
And now, friends...

The Dance of Miriam!

[cheers & applause]

- Thomas...

talk to me.

JESUS: Just watch out
for the frogs this time.

[laughing]

Oh, sons of Jonah!

- We were just
looking for you.

They're dancing
to the Song of Miriam

and we thought
you wouldn't want to miss it.

- Of course, let the three of us
show '‘em how it's done, huh?

- I don't think
that's such a good idea.

- Why?

- Well, Andrew
has four left feet.

- Four?
Why four?

- When he tries to dance,

he looks like a donkey
walking on hot coals.

[laughing]

- Ooohhh, Andrew,
do you deny it?

- I've never seen a donkey
walking on hot coals.

Actually, that would be
a terrible thing to behold.

- My son!

- Ah, Andrew, you see?

Even my own mother will be
joining in the Song of Miriam.

- They've run out of wine.

- But it's only
the first day.

- Yes.

And it's all gone,
not a drop left.

- Why are you
telling Me this?

We can't let the celebration
end like this,

and Asher's family humiliated.

Boys... go join the others,
I'll be right there.

Mother,
My time has not yet come.

- If not now...
when?

Please.

[woman vocalizing]

[sighs]

Do whatever He tells you.

[sighs]

- Fill these jars
with water.

- I'm not sure
You heard her clearly,

but we've run out of wine,
not water.

- These are similar in size
to your amphorae?

- The prudent marks,
yes.

Equal if filled
all the way to the brim.

- You're a very responsible
person, aren't you?

- We are in a crisis,

and I was led to understand
You have a solution?

- Do you know why jars
for purification rites

are made of stone?

- [chuckles]
What?

- You heard me.

- Because the stone
is pure,

less likely
to stain or break,

and it can't
be made unclean.

- Yes.

Fill these jars with water,
all the way to the brim.

- Why?

- You heard him,
start drawing water.

Quickly!

Tell anyone you find to stop
what they're doing and help.

- From the directions
You have provided,

I see no logical solution
to the problem.

- It's going to be like that
sometimes, Thomas.

- What did You say?

- I do not rebuke you.

It is good to ask questions.

To seek understanding.

- There's not time
for this.

- I know of a man
like you in Capernaum.

Always counting,
always measuring.

- That's my job...

one that people will think
I have not done well tonight.

- Join me,

and I'll show you a new way
to count and measure.

A different way
of seeing time.

- Go with you where?

I don't understand.

- Keep watching.

- Dinah!

- Abner,

I do hope you're
enjoying yourself.

- Where are the servers?

- I don't know, but I'll
go find them right away.

- It's far past time
for another round of wine.

The last one
was nearly an hour ago.

Yes,
well, you see--

- Surely there is more
coming, Dinah?

- I'm very sorry, do not worry,
this will be taken care of.

- Next round of wine
right away.

Thank you for reminding us,
it's all under control.

- Was your father
a stonemason as well?

- A smith.

I think it broke his heart,

but I apprenticed under
a stonecutter when I was nine.

Every man
must leave his father.

- Masonry seems
like harder work.

- It isn't harder,
it's just more... final.

[pouring sounds]

If the smith
wants to change the horseshoe

or the plowshare
or the pot hook,

he has only to put the iron
back into the fire

and reshape it
to fit his designs.

- They're full.

- Everyone,
please step outside.

Just for a moment,
Thomas.

♪

[woman vocalizing]

THADDEUS: Once you make
that first cut into the stone,

it can't be undone.

It sets in motion
a series of choices.

[heavy sigh]

What used to be a shapeless
block of limestone or granite

begins its long journey
of transformation...

and it will never be the same.

- I'm ready, Father.

♪

[wine dripping]

[wine dripping]

Go draw some out and serve it
to the Master of the Banquet.

[man excitedly laughing outside]

[background conversation]

- Oh,
it's about time.

- The latter vintage, sir.

- Stop the music!

Stop the music!

Everyone, listen!

I have something
I would like to say.

I would like to address

the bridegroom
and the bride's families.

At every wedding
I've ever overseen,

they serve the best wine first.

And then when the people
have drunk freely,

much later in the feast,

they serve the poorer wine,
the cheap stuff,

[laughter]

because, by then,

who's going to notice,
am I right?

[laughter]

But you--

--you've chosen now

to serve best wine
I have ever tasted!

Let us thank them

for this unnecessary
but honorable gesture!

[cheers & applause]

May the wedding of Asher,
son of Rafi and Dinah,

to Sarah,
daughter of Abner and Helah,

be as pure and as fruitful
as this wine.

Blessed are you,
Lord our God,

King of the universe,

who brings forth
the fruit of the vine.

To Asher and Sarah!

GUESTS Asher and Sarah!

[cheers & applause]

- Is something wrong?

- Yes...

I was.

- [mouths "Thank you"]

[background conversation]

- Fish... wine.

What will be next?

- Any suggestions?

- Anything...
and everything!

Let's do this!

I'll go with you
to the ends of the earth.

- I hope so, Simon.

But I seem to remember
there was a problem.

Something about Andrew's feet.

Andrew's feeeeet!

- But first we must evaluate,
no?

- No,
no, no, no, I can't!

- I think we have to.

- No, no,
no, no, I can't!

- Come on, Andrew!

[all cheering him on]

[singing & laughing]

♪

[singing & laughing continues]

- So will you help him?!

- Ah, some things
even I cannot do.

[laughing]

- That should be it
for the night.

Who is He?

I can't pretend
I didn't see a miracle.

He gave us even more
than we need.

- He invited me
to join Him.

He wants us to meet Him
in Samaria in days.

- Samaria?

- [sighs]
I don't know what to think.

- So, don't.

Maybe, for once in your life,
don't think.

♪

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪

[man vocalizing]

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪

[man vocalizing]

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.


---
The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
