03x08 - Sustenance

[♪ musical swirl ♪]

[rocks clattering]

[crickets chirping]

VIZIER: Our Lord Most High's
Anointed King David,

and his Queen.

ALL:
My king, sire.

- Rise, rise,
please.

Jeduthun!
Asaph!

How is the piece
coming along?

- I think we're close,
your Majesty.

- I'll hear a work
in progress any day.

A work in progress is better
than no work at all,

and no progress!

- I'm looking forward
to it as well,

but--
if I may--

where are the harps,
lyres, and flutes?

- That's...

well, we're trying
something new.

- Go on.

- This is
a Psalm of Asaph.

He wrote the lyrics;
I composed the music.

Instead of singing
and using instruments,

the text
will be spoken,

accompanied by a low hum
from the choir.

- The human voice.

The most beautiful
instrument of all.

A wonderful idea!

ASAPH:
Thank you, sire.

My prayer
for this psalm

is that like
your own songs,

it could be a comfort
to God's people

for generations
to come.

- This is
my prayer also.

- May it please
the king.

- And the King.

- Him most of all.

[scroll rustles]

[♪ choir hums ♪]

- "I cry aloud to God,

"aloud to God,

"and He will hear me.

"In the day of my trouble
I seek the Lord;

"in the night my hand is
stretched out without wearying;

"My soul refuses
to be comforted.

"When I remember God,
I moan;

"When I meditate,
my spirit faints.

"You hold
my eyelids open.

"I am so troubled
that I cannot speak.

"I consider the days of old,
the years long ago.

"I said, 'Let me remember
my song in the night;

"let me meditate
in my heart.'

"I will appeal
to this

"to the years of the right hand
of the Most High.

"I will remember
the deeds of the Lord.

Yes, I will remember
Your wonders of old..."

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Oh, child... ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪♪

♪ ♪

FATIYAH: If your own followers
can't figure out

how best to share
or live your teachings,

then why should
anyone else?

- Sit down.

- That's your answer?

- I don't mean you;
I mean my students.

Sit with me.

- Now?

- Yes, please.

Hello, Simon.

PHILIP:
Rabbi,

we didn't come here
to cause trouble.

- But it would appear
trouble has found us.

- So then,
we should address it.

- And how do you propose
to do that, Big James?

FATIYAH:
Listen to them.

- My friends,
sit with me.

We cannot go any further
until we agree on something.

Hmm?

Please.

♪ ♪

I'm a rabbi...

and as these Jewish brothers
will tell you,

we like to teach
by asking questions,

and we all like to
solve problems by talking.

If it begins
with a disagreement,

even better.

So, feel free
to listen,

and if you'd like
to argue a bit,

that's fine,
too.

- Rabbi...

we look weak
and defenseless.

- On the way to Jairus' house
in Capernaum,

what happened when the woman,
Veronica, touched me?

ZEE: Power
went out from you.

- No, I mean what
happened to her?

- She was healed.

JESUS:
How?

ANDREW: By touching
the fringe of Your garment.

- No.

My friends,
you forget so quickly.

You are dear to me,
[chuckles]

but your memories
are short.

MATTHEW: You said,
"Daughter, go in peace,

your faith
has made you well."

- Your what?

LITTLE JAMES/THADDEUS:
Faith.

- Her faith.

Many of you are afraid
right now,

instead of choosing
to have faith... in Me.

BIG JAMES:
But, Rabbi...

you must see what's happening
all around us--

- Of course He does,
that's the point!

- Rabbi,
increase our faith!

- Judas...

if you had faith the size
of a grain of mustard seed,

you could say
to a mulberry tree,

"Be uprooted
and planted in the sea,"

and it would
obey you.

- Can a mulberry tree
grow in the sea?

- He's making a point.

JESUS:
Truly,

if you have faith
like a grain of mustard seed,

you could say to a mountain,
"Move from here to there,"

and it will move.

And nothing
will be impossible to you.

NATHANAEL:
How?

How do we get there?

- Like Judas said,
You increase our faith!

- It's not about size,
Philip.

It's about who
your faith is in.

If your faith
is secure in God,

trusting
His promises,

choosing His will
for your life,

instead of your own...

this-sized faith
is enough.

These people
we are ministering to...

they are like bees,
hovering among the flowers,

waiting for them
to open up,

so they can sip the nectar
and spread it to others.

But they must see a faith
in you that is secure,

big or small.

- Looks like you have
your work cut out for you.

- Hey, hey, hey, hey.

FATIYAH:
You're right, Teacher,

they do have
short memories.

DIMITRIS:
Excuse me.

SIMON:
W-what are you doing?

Step back, we're
listening to our Teacher.

- So am I.

- Ignore him,
Simon,

this moment
is about us and Jesus.

- What is that smell?

[sniffs]
Rancid...

- It is an infection,
okay?

My leg is broken
and it got infected.

Mind your own business!

- You need to get that
checked out;

it's really bad.

[all gasp]

DIMITRIS:
You're right.

- Unclean!

- Silence!

- Look, I didn't ask
to get a broken leg.

- And we didn't ask for Him
to come into this region

and make things worse!

- I'll talk to you
in a moment.

DIMITRIS: I'm here
to test what He said

about the faith
of the bleeding woman.

- I already know,
brother.

I know you.

- Oh! Oh!
\{stomping]

[Jesus laughing]

- Under normal
circumstances,

I would strictly charge you
to tell no one.

In some regions,
and with some people,

it's just not My time
to be revealed

and to escalate tension
too soon.

But it looks like
we're past that.

- It's been a long time
since I've run!

[wood snaps]

[crowd "oohs"]

[laughing]

- Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

[sounds of amazement]

♪ ♪

- I'm glad you came,
Simon.

It's going to be
a long day.

[market sounds]

- Oh--oh, my!

Shalom.

- It's good to see you,
Eden.

- What a surprise!

Is everything
all right?

- Could we...
have a word inside?

- Of course.

Uh, what can I get you
to drink?

- Please, Eden,
we're fine.

- Let's sit down.

- Is something
wrong?

- You tell us.

- Zeb!

- This morning,
I ran into Simon

at Matthew's old house.

He was in a bad way.

- Oh, well,
that's his way.

He's all mine.

- I've known him
since he was born.

This wasn't Simon
being Simon.

- Eden, we love you like
the daughter we never had--

ever since the day
you married Simon.

A lot has changed in all
our lives these past two years,

especially yours.

And I sense--
we sense--

that some part of
Simon's distractedness

has something to do
with your marriage.

ZEBEDEE: We're not
saying it is...

- We just want you to know
that you can talk to us.

We are here for you,
no matter what's happening.

Lord knows
we're not perfect,

but we have been married
for a long time.

And if there's anything
we can do to help,

we want to.

ZEBEDEE:
I, myself,

am none too pleased
with Simon at the moment.

But I know
he's a good man.

I fished with his father Jonah
for 20 years

and never really
knew the man,

he was so difficult
and distant.

But Simon has tried
to be better than that.

And now
he's learning

a completely different
way of living

that would be bewildering
for any person,

let alone Simon.

- It's not just him.

I mean,
it's both of us.

But if I'm honest...
[softly crying]

it started--

it-it started
when, um...

- Are you hurt?

- No.

It's--

- Zeb...
give us a moment alone.

- Of course.

- Eden.

[door squeaks open, then shut]

[market noise]

♪ ♪

[Eden explaining in distance]

[crying]

MARY:
Here.

- How can we help?

- I don't know.

And neither does Simon,
which is our problem.

- I'm sorry.

MARY:
Eden...

I haven't known you
for very long.

And I don't know anything
about marriage, so--

actually,
now that I think about it,

I probably
shouldn't be--

- No, please.

- You may not be married
but you have suffered.

You have lost family.

- Still, I'm new to all this
so just know that--

You say
you have completed

your ritual purification
requirements.

- Not in the mikveh
because of the broken cistern,

but in the sea, yes.

And I isolated
for the seven days,

which wasn't hard
since Simon was gone.

- And being cleansed
didn't help at all.

- No,
it made it worse!

Because it didn't
bring my baby back,

and it didn't help
with my marriage.

That woman, Veronica,
who Jesus healed--

when she cleansed in the sea,
she had so much joy.

- She'd just been healed
of her malady,

her anguish
was over.

- And you were only at the
beginning of your grief, child.

Are.

Have you talked
to a Rabbi?

- The One I want
to talk to is not here,

and neither
is my husband.

- I don't know
what it's like

to go through
what you have...

...but I have been
through enough

to know that
you need to grieve.

[crying]

- Jesus gave her
healing and joy,

but He hasn't
given that to me.

- So go
to synagogue.

It's not about
the rabbi there,

it's the words from God
that he can give us.

That's what
Jesus gave me.

[crowd conversations]

- Now,
what is your name?

- Fatiyah.

- She is Nabataean!

- I didn't ask
her ethnicity.

Fatiyah,
help us all understand

what exactly has happened
in this region.

FATIYAH: Your students
preached in Naveh

about a kingdom that entranced
many from this region

who were visiting
the city--

including
the Augur of Abila

who stopped performing his
ceremonial and civic duties

upon returning
to Decapolis.

Work came
to a standstill.

Construction
was halted.

Merchants could
not get permits,

and wells went undug.

- So you're telling me that
the region was paralyzed

by the absence
of one man?

DION: What Fatiyah
did not say

is that the merchants
who could not get permits

hijacked a caravan
of exports

from my Syrophoenician
brothers.

- We had a deal in place
that you reneged!

- What is your name?

- Eremis.

I'm a bronze-caster.

- You appear to be in
good health and strength.

You are well-dressed
in Athenian Blue.

It matches your eyes.

Tell me, Eremis,
what is your plight?

- I bought a plot of land
in the north

and needed a reading
of the auspices

to determine
the gods' favorability

regarding construction
of a new casting facility.

- Hmm...

sounds so simple.

- But because of what
those Jews said--

MACHIR: Do not
associate these people

with our Order!

FATIYAH:
You stood by

as reports of their teaching
poisoned the minds--

- You don't know what we have
and haven't done, Fatiyah!

We strenuously disavow
all of their teachings!

We have been punished
for crimes we did not commit!

- Andrew?
Philip?

ANDREW/PHILIP:
Yes, Rabbi?

- Did you direct your teaching
to Jewish citizens?

ANDREW:
Yes.

- As you instructed,
Teacher.

- But the Augur from Abila
overheard and was moved.

- Hmm.

Eremis?

What would the Augur's
reading have told you?

- Whether there were
good or bad omens.

- Doesn't that
sound absurd??

- You would call us
absurd, Jew?

Your laws about food
and purity are laughable!

- What?!

JESUS: Whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa!

Sit down,
brothers.

The last thing these people
need is thunder.

EREMIS: How can I
build a business

without knowing where the gods
want me to build, hmm?

- Nazarene, if you are any sort
of self-respecting rabbi

you will not dignify
that question with an answer.

- Your people's condescension
is unending.

- Oh, and there's never been
a note of condescension

in your voice,
Fatiyah?

JESUS:
Let's stay on topic,

hmm?

So here we have Eremis,
paralyzed by fear

that his
business ambitions

might not be sanctioned
by the gods of his religion.

How could this
lead to violence?

- The Augur's
flagrant rebellion

undermined
Greek authority.

- And yet the Jewish community
was targeted

in a brutal wave
of attacks!

FATIYAH: My people
were hardest hit

for not having
paperwork with Rome.

- And you turned
to crime!

- Out of desperation!

- That is why I brought
Philip and Andrew back

to clarify their message.

EREMIS: They told a story
about hospitality,

but for some reason Jews and
Arabs came to blows over it.

- The people originally invited
to the banquet in your story

had perfectly legitimate
reasons for not coming.

JESUS: Which is
another way of saying

some people think the old way
of doing things is better.

- "Look to
the ancient roads,

where the good way is,
and walk in it."

- You know
your prophets.

- Of course I do.

- What about Isaiah?

"Forget the former things;
do not dwell on the past..."

- Do not pit prophets
against each other,

especially
on this issue.

The people on
the highways and hedges...

surely you're not
referring to the Gentiles?

- You sound like you don't
want us to come to the banquet.

JESUS: The meaning
of the story

is that God
wants His house full,

and everyone who
believes in Me is invited.

Plain and simple.

- Heresy!

- You know, you sound
just like the people

at the beginning
of the story

who declined to come
to the banquet.

- I wouldn't be caught dead
at a banquet with you!

I couldn't stand
before God if I was.

- Now do you see?

- So you're telling me

that prior to Andrew
and Philip's visit,

the Decapolis was a veritable
paradise of peace and unity?

- At least groups
kept to themselves.

LEANDER:
Stop.

Our town of Abila
has been on edge for decades.

- Ah, we always knew the Jews
were fractious and divided,

but quietly,
inside their synagogue.

- At least we go to Jerusalem
to make our sacrifices,

not like you Greeks,

who leave your offerings
on the public altars

to rot and stink.

Ever wonder why Zeus
never seems to come down

to eat of
your offerings?

- Maybe it's because the wine
is sour and spoiled.

- Maybe it's because
there is no Zeus.

- The Augur's apprentice

secretly removes
the votive offerings

under cover of night

when the stench
is unbearable.

- So, basically,
your religion is a sham.

- Again,
that contemptuous spirit.

Are you proud to belong
to this denigrating race?

- Eremis, please.

Jesus, your fame
is well-known.

We've heard that you work
wonders and change lives

and preached a sermon
on the Korazim plateau

that some are saying

may become the most
significant speech

the world
has ever known.

- I wasn't doing it
to become famous.

- Well, too bad,
because you are.

And specifically
for succeeding

at all
you put your hand to.

- Looks like you've arrived
at your first failure.

LEANDER:
Jesus of Nazareth...

if You are
who You say You are,

why do You inspire
and transform some people,

but threaten
and disgust others?

- Let me tell you
a story.

[groans]

I know, I know,

but this is another thing
we Jews do,

and come to think of it,
so do the Greeks,

so everyone
just listen up.

A sower
went out to sow.

And as he sowed,
some seeds fell along the path,

MAN:
We can't hear you!

[Others yelling to hear]

- Ah.

More listening.

I'm going
to move back

so we can welcome
as many as possible.

Students, please,

spread out
and organize the people

and help
pass My words on

to those far away.

- Y-you want to
send us out into--

- Go on.

- We can trust Him,
John.

- Zee, Big James,
stay here for protection.

♪ ♪

[disciples organizing crowd]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[disciples directing crowd]

♪ ♪

NASHÓN:
Hyah!

[sheep bleat]

- You've come
from Perea?

- The Decapolis.

- That explains it.

- Explains what?

- Prayer tassels.

You aren't wearing any.

- Yes, they are not in style
in the Hellenist cities.

- What brings you
to Judea?

- An important errand
in Jerusalem.

- You might consider stopping
in Jericho on your way

to pick up
some tassels.

If you are not wearing any
in the Holy City--

- Thank you,

but I have weightier matters
on the mind than fashion.

[sheep bleats]

- You'd better hurry...

there is a storm coming.

- [chuckles]
There certainly is.

Hyah!

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

JESUS: This man,
Leander,

asked how can it be

that I inspire and transform
some people,

but seem to threaten
and repulse others.

And so,
as I said,

I'd like to respond
with a story.

A sower
went out to sow.

And as he sowed,
some seeds fell along the path,

and the birds came
and devoured them.

Other seeds fell
on rocky ground,

where they did not
have much soil...

- Other seeds fell
on rocky ground,

where they did not
have much soil.

JESUS: Immediately
they sprang up,

for there was
no depth of soil.

- And immediately
they sprang up,

for there was
no depth of soil.

JESUS: But when
the sun rose

they were scorched.

And since they had no root,
they withered away.

- And since
they had no root,

they withered away.

JESUS: And the thorns grew up
and choked them...

- Other seeds
fell among thorns,

and the thorns grew up
and choked them...

- And the thorns grew up
and choked them.

- Other seeds fell on good soil
and produced grain,

some a hundredfold,
some sixty, some thirty.

JUDAS: ...some a hundredfold,
some sixty, some thirty.

- He who has ears to hear,
let him hear.

- He who has ears to hear,
let him hear.

[voices in background]

- You seeing this?

Simon,
this crowd--

We are completely
surrounded!

There must be...
thousands!

[knock on door]

- What in heaven?!

- Rabbi Shmuel!

- I'm coming!

[door squeaks open]

- I'm sorry to
disturb you, Rabbi,

but it's urgent.

- Rabbi Shmuel,
it is a great honor.

Forgive the late hour.

My name is Nashón,
son of Eliab, of Abila.

- You've ridden
a great distance.

Did your tassels
fall off along the way?

- Oh! My goodness,
yes, they must have.

My apologies,
I--

- Get him a spare.

Please.

- I heard the great Shammai
has issued an edict

regarding false prophecy,

to be on guard and alert
for anything amiss.

- Yes.

- I have just
encountered a--

- What is that vest?

- Oh!

This was a gift
from my wife.

Damask, so named for Damascus
where it is made:

A silk and linen weave,

very popular
in Hellenist cities--

- Remove it at once!

- Excuse me?

- Take it off!

- [scoffs]
I--

- According to
the Law of Moses--

"You shall not you wear
a garment of cloth

made of two kinds
of material."

- Oh, I thought that
was just an old--

- An old what?

Finish that sentence.

- I don't know.

A thing about not imitating
Canaanite culture.

A cultural prohibition
for its time.

I didn't think
anyone actually--

- Torah is timeless.

- I understand...
again, my apologies,

I did not
intend to sin--

- It is as I expected
in the Decapolis;

Greek influence
has polluted your faith.

[sighs]

But apparently
not so much

that you did not heed
Judge Shammai's edict.

- I encountered a Jewish Rabbi
consorting with Gentiles...

multitudes.

He even healed
a Gentile deaf mute!

- Tell me about
the preacher.

- Um...

Three weeks ago, a pair
of students from Capernaum

were teaching in Naveh
to a group

they didn't realize
was both Jew and Gentile,

repeating the teachings
of their Rabbi,

whose name they said
was Jesus.

- Of??

- What do you mean?

- Jesus from where?!

- A small town
called Nazareth,

if you can
believe--

- [slams desk] I require
no further information

from you.

- But, Rabbi--

- Summon the Temple Guard,
retrieve Rabbi Yanni!

I'll gather Shammai's
representatives.

Meet us at
the Herodian staircase.

♪ ♪

[crickets chirping]

[horse hooves clip-clopping]

- Fourteen hands...
Athenian blanket...

- Thank God!

- ...Macedonian
Bridle Leather...

Syrophoenician Hammer-Finished
Steel Shoes...whoa!

And you left her
untethered, untended.

- I was in
such a hurry--

Here,
for your pains,

I am terribly
grateful!

ATTICUS: No,
it's all right;

my pleasure,
really.

But tell me...

what could be
so important

that you would leave
such a rare beauty

vulnerable to theft,
or, um, wandering off?

- I had important business
with Rabbi Shmuel.

- Rabbi Shmuel?

I am fascinated
to know more.

You must be
very important yourself.

- No.

- What I'm
about to say

is for Jews
as much as Gentiles...

So many cities are missing
the need for repentance

and righteousness.

I have already preached
and done miracles

in multiple cities,

as have
My followers.

[disciples repeating to crowd]

JESUS: And yet they
still fall short.

So many of you are here,
listening to Me,

eager to be drawn
closer to God,

eager to find peace
in your souls!

And in doing so,
you have more wisdom

than most of
the religious leaders

who refuse
to be humble.

I thank you,
Father,

Lord of heaven
and earth,

that you have hidden
these things

from the wise
and understanding

and revealed them
to little children.

Yes, Father,

for such was
your gracious will.

All things have been
handed over to Me by My Father,

and no one knows the Son
except the Father,

and no one knows the Father
except the Son

and anyone to whom the Son
chooses to reveal Him.

And I am revealing the Father
to you now,

Jew and Gentile!

What is stirring
in your hearts,

in the middle of
such division and unrest,

is Father God
being revealed to you!

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

Come to Me,

all who labor
and are heavy laden,

and I will
give you rest.

Take My yoke upon you,
and learn from Me,

for I am gentle
and lowly in heart,

and you will find rest
for your souls.

For My yoke
is easy,

and My burden
is light!

Speaking of rest...
[chuckles]

we all need it now,
including Me.

So wherever you want to
lay your head, let's sleep,

and I will continue
in the morning.

Shalom, shalom.

[disciples giving instructions]

Goodnight, Matthew.

- Judas, do you have
the count?

- Yes.

There's at least 1,000
to the South.

- There were still
people arriving

after the sun
went down.

- Are Andrew
and Philip back?

- No, but before
it got dark,

both points of the compass
looked roughly equal

in population.

- So 2,000?

- And counting.

- I said roughly,
but yes.

JUDAS:
We should get going.

- We have a situation.

- What situation?

- The Gentiles...

they're out of food.

- I don't think anyone expected
the teaching to last all day.

- No one has forced them
to stay.

- Simon, they're hungry
for His words!

- And now they're
hungry for food.

It's not
our problem.

Can't they go back
to their villages?

- They were driven out
by violence!

It's nighttime!

They have to sleep
in these fields!

- He doesn't get it.

He doesn't get
how bad things were

when we first
came here.

- Whatever happened,

it wouldn't change
the facts of the situation.

- Well..

I can see things are going
just as well here as out there.

- What do you mean?

- Some of these people
were driven from their home

more than a week ago.

They're hungry
and tired.

- Don't trouble Simon
with your news,

his mind is anywhere
but here.

- Andrew, be gracious
with your brother.

- Gracious?

He just said these people's
hunger is not our problem

and that we should
send them away.

- Did you really
say that, Simon?

PHILIP:
It doesn't matter now.

We matters is that
we need to solve this

without Simon's help.

- We can't!

- He's not the Messiah,
John; Jesus is.

- No arguments there.

But Jesus
told me that...

that the success of this trip
depends on Simon.

- He said that?

- That's why
I stayed behind.

Jesus insisted
that I stay back,

wait for Simon
and bring him.

- Simon!

- Did He say how?

- No.

- If it all
depends on you...

what's the plan?

- Nothing.

- What??

- Jesus is capable
of doing whatever He wants.

In the end,
that's what He'll do.

- Brother,
you're being very--

- If Jesus wants
to provide a solution

for these hungry people,

that's what's
going to happen.

I'm sure of it.

- You don't seem very happy
to be sure of it.

[wind blowing]

[carriage creaking]

- Ozem, wake up,
you're slobbering on me.

- Ohhh...

how much farther
do we have to go?

- You know the distance
to the Decapolis

and you know the hour
we left.

- An ungodly one.

- There's no such thing
as an "ungodly" hour.

OZEM: Ugh!
Tell that to my wife.

We were supposed to
take the children

to see their grandparents
in Gaza today.

- We serve God first,
then our families.

- We serve God
by serving our families,

and you don't
have one,

so don't preach
at me!

YANNI: The only preaching
I've heard lately is you

repeating
Shammai's refrain

that fidelity to God's Law
to the letter

is the only thing
that matters,

and yet, here you are
complaining about

having to actually act upon
that conviction.

SHMUEL: When I filed
the reports to Shammai

about the healings
on Shabbat

and Jesus commanding
His followers

to eat heads of grain
on Shabbat,

your very own Shammai
said to me

that we would wait
to take action

until we knew
it was "God's time."

[yawns]

- Wisdom I wish you
would have heeded.

You forget your rank
and stature, Shmuel.

- To the contrary.

Cognizant of my rank
and stature,

I asked him how we would know
it was God's time.

His answer?

When evidence
was abundant.

Nashón said the crowds
passing him on the road

could only be described
as multitudes of Gentiles.

OZEM: That's the other thing
about all this.

Gentiles?

Why are we meddling
in the Decapolis?

It's the Holy City
that matters.

- So...
a sin is only a sin

if it happens in
or near Jerusalem?

- No, no, no!

It's a matter
of allocating resources.

There's more syncretism
and Hellenist influences

desecrating our people's
practice in the Decapolis

than we could ever hope to
address in any meaningful way.

The hassle of hunting down
a single Jew

who may be leading
some people astray

is myopic and, oy,
unappealing.

- I'm sorry that false teaching
is such a burden to you.

- I'm sorry it's
such a burden to you.

YANNI: That's enough
of all this.

I think the one thing
that we can all agree on

is that if we find Him
performing any magic tricks

or sorcery,

we will have to
take action.

OZEM:
It's been a long time

since I've prosecuted
a witchcraft case.

They can be unwieldy,

which is why
I let them come to me,

not go looking
for them.

- Is there any way
to go faster?

DRIVER:
Yes, Rabbi.

OZEM: You summoned
a carriage

in the middle
of the night.

Did you expect Caiaphus
to handpick your steeds?

Ahhh,
just relax.

[chomps apple]

[horse clip-clopping]

JESUS: Tell me
what you think of this.

A man had two sons.

And he went to the first
and said,

"Son, go and work
in the vineyard today."

And he answered,
"I will not,"

but afterward he changed
his mind and he went.

And he went to the other son
and said the same.

And he answered,
"I will go, sir,"

but did not go.

Which of the two sons
did the will of the father?

ALL:
The first.

[Jesus talking in background]

- You!

Where did you
find that?

- At the bottom
of my bag.

I forgot
it was in there.

It's a little stale,
but it will do.

- You've been out here for days
and just discovered it?

- I followed some men
who told me

we were coming
to watch a fight.

- A fight?!

- Everyone was just
in such a hurry.

- Does anyone
have food?

No?

Food?

TELEMACHUS:
Your name is Andrew, yes?

- Yes.

- I wanted to say
thank you again

for everything you--

- I'm not the one
who healed your father,

but I can certainly
pass that along.

- You've been asking
about food.

- Yes.

- I want to share
what I have.

- Son, this...

can feed one family
out of thousands.

- I just...

wanted to do
what I could.

JESUS:
The kingdom of heaven

- You okay?

- I'm fine.

JESUS: is like treasure
hidden in a field,

which a man found
and covered up.

Then in his joy he goes
and sells all that he has

and buys that field.

- What do you mean
by that?

- What are we
going to do?

- I don't know.

JESUS: Let me say it
another way.

It is like a merchant
in search of fine pearls--

[arguing]

--who, on finding one pearl
of great value,

went and sold all that he had
and bought it.

Listen carefully,

because this is accessible
to all of you,

regardless of race
or creed!

The kingdom
is so valuable,

that once you have
glimpsed it,

it's worth parting with
everything you have

in order to gain it,

even though to others
you might look like a fool--

throwing away
your life savings

to buy what would look
to others

an unremarkable field.

But you know
of the hidden treasure,

and that makes it
worth everything.

Have you come closer
to hear better?

- No,
there is an issue.

[arguing]

- My friends,
if you'll excuse me,

I must speak with
my students a moment.

THADDEUS: Rabbi,
people are all out of food.

LITTLE JAMES: Some have been
without food for days.

Others have traveled
great distance.

- So... give them
something to eat.

- We're out of food,
they're out of food.

Is it time
to send them home?

- Well, at this point,
they're so hungry and tired,

if we send them home
they'll faint along the way.

- You knew
they're hungry?

- Yes, Judas,

I can see them
while I'm talking.

[Judas laughs]

Mm... well,
this is a tough one.

Where can we buy some bread
for all these people?

JUDAS: We only came with
a little over 200 denarii.

PHILIP: Rabbi,
that's not even enough

to get a little bit
for everyone.

I wouldn't even know
how to calculate that.

- Matthew and I
can calculate that,

that's really eas--

- Maybe if we go
into the cities,

we can negotiate
something on credit.

JUDAS: Yes, yes,
that could work.

LEANDER: Negotiate
with whom?

The closest city
is Abila

and its entire population
is here.

It's nine miles away,

and even if we raided
every house in town,

we'd have to find a way
to bring it back here

and it would still only feed
a fraction of the masses.

- Can you bring me
anything?

Surely there's some food
from someone,

even a small amount.

- Five loaves of bread
and two fish.

But... what is this
for so many?

- Barley loaves.

- Two fish
and five barley loaves,

thank you for...
clarifying.

- This is humiliating.

- John--

He will take care of it
if He wants to.

- You look scared.

What are you
afraid of?

- Huh, I'm afraid that...
He'll choose them.

- [sniffs] This is
wonderful bread, Telemachus.

- I know it's
not enough.

- It's enough
for Me.

I can do a lot
with this.

Thank you.

Blessed are You,
Lord our God,

King of the universe

who brings forth bread
from the earth.

- Did they find
some bread?

- If they've got bread,
be ready...

we'll probably
be first.

- Feed them.

- What has changed?

Are we--

- Organize the people
into groups of 50 to 100,

gather up 12 baskets

to distribute
the loaves and fish.

Was I unclear?

- Ah, no,
this feels familiar.

- Maybe.

- Let's go.

[disciples asking for baskets]

- Feed them.

- Yes.

[disciples asking for baskets]

JESUS: The kingdom of heaven
is like a grain of mustard seed

that a man took
and sowed in his field.

It is the smallest
of all seeds,

but when it has grown,

it is larger than
all the garden plants

and becomes a tree,

so that the birds of the air
can come and make their nests

in its branches.

[disciple discussion]

- That's better
than the tail.

- That's the last
of it.

- Yeah, that's
the last of it.

- Telemachus, you can have
your basket back now--

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

MATTHEW:
What?!

[laughter]

[laughter]

]] Is your basket
full?

Are you serious?

Do you see
all this?!

♪ ♪

[laughter]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

- I've kept you here
all this time,

giving you
spiritual food.

But you clearly need
actual food now...

so, let's eat!

[crowd cheering]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

- [knock on door]
Rabbi Yussif.

There are two women
here to see you.

- It's Rabbi Joziah's
visiting hours.

Is he unable
to assist?

I'm in the middle of
something very important.

- One of the women
says to tell you

she is the wife of Simon,
son of Jonah.

- Oh,
one of Jesus'...

Yes,
please send them in.

You have my...
deepest condolences.

Torah has
very little to say

on this specific matter,
I'm afraid.

But sorrow is sorrow.

Especially when
your husband is...

- Gone.

- Perhaps, but I was
going to say distracted.

There is much
going on with Jesus,

and in many ways,
the world is upending,

with Simon
in the middle of it.

I'm making sense of it
myself...

maybe I've been
too distracted.

It's easy to forget

there are still matters
of great importance

to attend to
in the home.

Are you angry
with him?

- Yes.

- I understand.

You mentioned you did
your purification in the Sea.

Now that some time
has passed,

what about
a new cleansing,

but in
the mikveh?

With a prayerful
state of mind,

maybe this could be part
of a new path forward.

- But the cistern...

- We received word
this morning

it will be operational
by sundown.

Actually, I believe Simon
helped in the speedy repair.

- Perhaps when
she is ready.

We were hoping today
for a reading from Torah.

- Of course.

Did you have anything
in mind?

DASHA: Perhaps something
uplifting and joyful, Rabbi?

- I'm not sure that
would be truthful.

There are many Psalms
of anguish, even anger,

and they are all just
as important as the others.

In fact,
some of the desperate psalms

draw us closest
to God.

One of David's appointed
chief musicians, Asaph,

was inclined to write
in this depth...

as in this passage,

"In the day of my trouble
I seek the Lord;

"in the night
my hand stretches out

without wearying."

This psalm is desperate...
even angry.

Do you know
who else

is undoubtedly
desperate and angry?

Simon.

[sighs]

I know him a little,

and I'm sure he's actually
very angry,

and... making that known
to others.

Perhaps you can pray this
with him... and for him.

"My soul refuses
to be comforted.

"When I remember God,
I moan;

"when I meditate,
my spirit faints.

"You hold
my eyelids open.

"I am so troubled
that I cannot speak.

"Will the Lord
spurn forever,

"and never again
be favorable?

"Has His steadfast love
forever ceased?

"Are His promises at an end
for all time?

"Has God forgotten
to be gracious?

Has he in his anger
shut up his compassion?"

But that's not
the whole Psalm, is it?

Then I said,
"I will appeal to this,

"to the years of the right hand
of the Most High.

"I will remember
the deeds of the Lord;

"yes, I will remember
Your wonders of old.

"I will ponder
all Your work

"and meditate on
Your mighty deeds.

"Your way, O God,
is holy.

"What god is great
like our God?

"You are the God
that works wonders;

"You have made Your might known
among the peoples.

"You with Your arm
redeemed Your people,

the children of Jacob
and Joseph."

- Little James,
what happened?

Your basket looks
heavier than before!

- [chuckling] Everyone ate
and was satisfied.

They didn't want
any more;

they were full!

- You gave us more
than we needed.

- You'll get used to
this kind of math, Judas.

- [chuckling]
I'm in.

- Thank you, Rabbi.

ANDREW: Can't believe
we ever doubted.

- Well, I was the one
to cause their hunger...

I should be the one
to satisfy it, no?

- I am no longer
surprised.

- You're a new Matthew.

Oh! Sorry!

But I meant it.

JOHN: It's always
this way.

I don't know why
I'm surprised.

It's, um, just like Simon
said it would be.

[thud]

BIG JAMES:
John.

[horse nickers]

[carriage creaks]

- He wasn't
exaggerating.

- This is more than
I ever thought.

- That's
a Nabataean robe!

That headdress
is Arabian.

- We're in a sea
of Gentiles.

- Driver, stop!

- What is this?

What has been
happening?

- The Teacher,
from Nazareth!

- How long have you
been out here

listening to
the Teacher?

- Two days!

- But we are several miles
from any city.

How did you eat?

- He multiplied loaves
and fish to feed us.

Thousands of us.

- What do you mean,
"multiplied"?

- There just kept being
more and more, by His hand!

A miracle!

- We need the evidence
of three witnesses.

- [scoffs] That won't
be difficult.

- Did He and His followers
also partake?

- Of course.

- He breaks bread
with Gentiles?!

- I tell them God performed
a miracle and they say,

"But He ate with
the wrong people!"

- We already knew
an Ethiopian woman

travels with Him
and His students.

- But breaking bread?

That's worse
than I thought!

- Again--
we need witnesses!

- LEANDER:
Pharisees from Judea?

You're a little late;
you missed the show.

- Name the teacher.

- Jesus of Nazareth.

A name
I will never forget.

- What did He preach?

Did any of it
run contrary to Torah?

- He preached about
the kingdom of heaven.

- Which is what?

- Everything.

A mustard seed,

a pearl
of great price,

treasure hidden
in a field.

But the best part...

He said that
in the kingdom of heaven,

many would come
from East and West

with Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob.

That's all of us--

Jew and Gentile
together at one table.

- He said what?

- We need a third witness.

- Jesus of Nazareth
may be the first Jew

to break bread
with Gentiles,

but He won't
be the last.

And it will be
with your patriarchs,

Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob.

- Blasphemy!

You've hurt
our people!

- We've hurt
each other.

But He
is healing us!

♪ ♪

[Ozem spits on ground]

- We need
three witnesses!

What did
the teacher say

about Gentiles reclining
at table with Patriarchs?

What did the teacher
say?!

What did
the teacher say

about Gentiles reclining
at table with Patriarchs?

What did
the teacher say?!

- Okay, okay,
it will do.

It's not amazing,
but it will do.

Nah, nah, nah, nah,
no net, no fish, nothing;

I just want the boat.

I want four oars
waiting inside

when I come back.

Listen,
how much you want?

Because I'm in a rush,
it's waiting for you, okay?

- What do we do now?

- It's a 13-mile walk
back to Capernaum

all the way around the sea
in the rain and the dark.

- With everything
we had to do today,

carrying the baskets
and distributing food...

- I'll do my best.

- We won't leave you
behind, James.

PETER:
We're not walking.

We're rowing.

It's only eight miles across,
I've got a boat,

and we can row faster
than we can walk.

Come on, Big James,
you know we're good at this.

- [chuckles]
Yeah.

JESUS: Excellent strategy,
Simon.

Simon is right.

Everyone get
into the boat

and row back across
to Capernaum.

- What about You?

- [chuckles]

It's been
a long three days.

I need some time alone
to pray.

- But there are storm clouds
on the horizon.

- Let me stay with you, Rabbi,
I'll keep watch.

- I'll be fine.

All of you go;
hurry.

Follow Simon.

You all did
so well today.

Shalom, shalom.

DISCIPLES:
Shalom, shalom.

- I stayed behind
so you could get us a boat?!

- I won't be in your way
for long, John.

- Have faith,
Simon!

- Faith
isn't my problem.

I think
I was a mistake!

Even God makes them,
right?

Go.

You heard Him.

Let's go.

♪ ♪

[crowd conversations]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

- You look familiar.

- I--

- More specifically,

and I mean
no offense,

you look troubled.

- I am.

- I'm going up this hill
to pray.

Would you care
to join me?

We don't have to talk about
anything if you don't want.

I know sometimes
people who are troubled

just need someone
to sit with them in silence.

- Like Job.

- Mm,
is it that bad?

- Not quite...

more like David.

- Ah, do share.

- "How long must I
take counsel in my soul

"and have sorrow in my heart
all the day?

How long shall my enemy
be exalted over me?"

- You're losing
something.

[shuddered breaths]

I know
what that's like.

- What are You
losing?

- Time.

Come.

Join me in prayer
for a little while.

- Will you speak with me
after?

- I will...

if you still want
to question me after we pray.

[thunder and lightning]

[heavy rains and winds]

[disciples strain and groan]

- Brothers, we're not
getting anywhere!

ZEE: The winds
are too strong.

We should turn back!

- We can get there,
just keep pulling!

- Simon, it's the fourth watch
of the night

and we've been stuck
in the same place for hours!

LITTLE JAMES:
I'm all right.

NATHANAEL: We can't
take much more water!

BIG JAMES:
We'll founder!

- Better off
wet and cold on land

than drowned and dead
out here!

[heavy rain and thunder]

[loud thunderclaps and rain]

[horse nickers]

- John, keep rowing!

What are you doing?

- Did anybody
just see that?

Over there!

[loud thunderclap]

I don't see
anything.

- What are we
looking for?

- I--

[heavy rain]

[loud thunderclap]

- Ghost!
It's a ghost!

- A what??

- It can't be.

[loud rain and thunder]

[horse nickers]

- We have to
get out of here!

Everyone row!

Row faster!
Go!

Nobody move!

- Simon, what??

- I said
everybody stop!

BIG JAMES:
Stop, stop, stop!

SIMON:
Nobody move!

- That's not
a ghost.

- Are you crazy?!

♪ ♪

- Don't be afraid,
it's Me!

- Jesus?!
How?

- Impossible.

- How is this the second
most incredible thing

I've seen today?

- This surprises you?

Did you learn nothing
from today?

- If it is You.

Command me to come to You
on the water.

ANDREW:
Simon, no!

- Are you
out of your mind?!

- If You are
who You say You are,

bid me to step out
of this boat.

- Do you have the faith
to walk on this water?

- Absolutely!

You can do whatever
You command,

and if You command the water
to hold me,

I will walk on it!

- If I call you to Me,
you would step out in faith?

- Yes!

- Then why are you
so upset?

- Why are You
chasing after Gentiles

when Your own people
have problems right here?!

When your own person
has problems?!

I've been right here
in front of You,

believing in You,

and You're breaking up fights
in the Decapolis?!

- Then come to Me.

You,
weary and heavy laden...

I will give you rest.

[loud rain continues]

[boat creaks]

ANDREW: Simon?!
No!!

[disciples telling him no]

[water lightly splashes]

[disciples telling him no]

[water splashing]

♪ ♪

- Do you still
have faith?

- Faith hasn't been
my problem!

I gave up everything
to follow You,

but You're healing
total strangers!

TOGETHER: Blessed are You,
Lord our God,

King of the Universe,

Who gives
and takes away.

[loud rain and waves]

- Why do you think
I allow trials?

- I don't know!

- Because they prove
the genuineness of your faith!

They strengthen you!

This is
strengthening you!

And Eden!

Just keep your eyes
on Me!

TOGETHER:
Who comforts us

in our grief

and binds up the wounds
of the brokenhearted.

[loud wind, waves and rain]

TOGETHER:
Who mourns with us

for the life
that could not be.

[thunderclap and loud rain]

- I'm sinking!

Lord, save me,
I'm sinking!

- In the shadow of Your wings
do we take refuge.

[disciples shouting for Simon]

[disciples shouting]

[shouting continues]

[water burbling]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[water trickling]

[water splashes]

PETER:
Don't leave me, Lord.

Please.

- I've got you.

[loud thunderclap]

- I've got you.

- Don't let me go.

- I've got you.

- Please.

- O you of
little faith.

Why did you doubt?

- Don't
let me go.

- I have much
planned for you, Simon,

including
hard things.

[rain and thunder]

Just keep your eyes
on Me.

I promise.

]] Come on,
help him.

PETER:
Please.

Please.

[crying]
Don't let me go, please!

I'm sorry.

Don't let me go,
please!

I'm sorry;
please don't let me go.

- Peace!
Be still!

[storm stops, waters calm]

PETER:
Please...

[Peter crying]
don't let me go.

[water lapping against boat]

JESUS: I'm here...
I'm always here.

[Peter crying]

I let people
go hungry...

but I feed them.

[Peter crying]

- Please.

Please don't
let me go.

[crying]

Don't let me go.

- [crying]
Don't let him go.

Please...
don't let him go.

[water lapping against boat]

[♪ men vocalizing ♪]

ASAPH:
I will appeal to this:

to the years of the right hand
of the Most High.

[♪ men vocalizing ♪]

I will remember
the deeds of the Lord;

yes, I will remember
Your wonders of old.

I will ponder
all Your work

and meditate on
Your mighty deeds.

Your way, O God,
is holy.

[♪ men and women vocalizing ♪]

[♪ vocalizing continues ♪]

What god is great
like our God?

You are the God
who works wonders;

You have made known Your might
among the peoples.

You with Your arm
redeemed Your people,

the children
of Jacob and Joseph.

[♪ vocalizing continues ♪]

[♪ vocalizing swells ♪]

When the waters saw You,
O God,

when the waters saw You,
they were afraid;

indeed,
the deep trembled.

The clouds
poured out water;

the skies gave forth
thunder;

Your arrows flashed
on every side.

The crash of your thunder
was in the whirlwind;

your lightnings
lighted up the world.

The earth
trembled and shook.

Your way
was through the sea,

your path through
the great waters;

yet Your footprints
were unseen.

[music stops]

- I think it's ready.

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[fire crackling]

[papers
ruffling]

- Honored who?

DIRECTOR:
Honored guests.

- Of course.

]] It's the second word!

RAMAH: Besides, my father
is not yet a believer.

- That's what
Jesus said.

Uh, sorry.

MOTHER MARY: You know,
You can just come in!

- I know.

- Are you--what--
uh, do--bluh-bluh-blur,

blah-blah-blur,
blah-blah-la,

You know you can
just come in!

- It's not about, uh,
sss-sup--ss--blah-la-la-blah,

[blows raspberry]
[claps] One more time!

THOMAS: I wanted
to tell you myself.

- You're going to
ask my father for permish--

for perfmish--
pfss--

Pfss-pfss-pfss-
ss-ss-ss

[giggles] Ha-ha!
[slurps] [giggles]

- Why don't
You just come in?

- Aww.

- You can do it,

You know You can do,
atha-gullup, oh!

- Blah-la-la-la,
♪ all the time! ♪

- I'll take that
as a no.

By decree
of Quintus...

he does
something here.

- I always remember
that moment.

But...

sometimes in the memory,
I forget, unh, my line.

[chuckles]

- After the joy
of having you gone wore off,

Eden has actually
started to miss you.

[laughs] So you two, uh,
you two get out of here, huh?

[laughter]

I don't remember
the real line.

[laughter]

DIRECTOR:
Take a break.

[laughter]

I was close.
[chuckling]

You two get a room.

[laughter]

ZEE: Please respect
His private-sy.

[hysterical laughter]

- Bless us,
O Lord--

- Lord our God--

- Sorry, wrong prayer.
[chuckles]

- No food, no shelter,
no clothes.

Go out into
strange lands.

ANDREW: He said
not to be afraid.

THOMAS: Fear is not a thing
you just stop, Andrew.

DALLAS:
Pause for a second,

um, no defenses,
no food, no shelter.

- No defenses.

DALLAS: You will be
wearing clothes.

[laughs]
- Okay.

No clothes.

[laughing]
- Was that what he said?

- No clothes.

[laughter]

Whoa!

Whoa, whoa.

DALLAS: Sorry,
sorry guys--speechless.

Let's go
back to um--

[laughter]

DALLAS:
Take it from the--

- I'm going
back to bed.

- What?

What?

- Your problem,
not mine.

- Thank you,
Mary.

[sheep bleats]

Ha-have
a good night.

[sheep bleats]

[giggles]
[laughter]

[sheep bleats]

- Thank you,
Mary.

Thh--
[laughs]

[laughter]

- Judas!

JUDAS:
Hadad!

- I lost you.

And I was running like
some kind of crazy man.

- A little bit,
I--

I suppose that I could
make some arrangements.

Some--sorry, sorry
[gasps] [coughs]

a bug flew in my mouth;
I'm so sorry.

- Oh, no.

Spit it out.

- No, [coughs]
hmm--

- It's good protein--

- Yes.

- It's good
for you.

- Ah,
I'm leaving.

I quit!

DIRECTOR: Everybody hold,
just hold your positions.

- And I also
poisoned your bread.

- What?!

- Yes,
it was really hard.

- You poisoned me?

- I had to like
soak it for--

- Eeh-ril-rip!

BIG JAMES:
Oh, is that--that?

DALLAS:
An action review.

- Got it.

DALLAS:
Ready to go again?

- I was ready
to go again.

- Again.

RABBI AKIVA: Jairus,
let's go in.

Please stay here.

Please.

[laughing]
- I'm sorry.

LEANDER:
It's Leander from Naveh.

JUDAS:
Huh!

Let me try that
again.

Scabin,
flippity-dip!

It's--

Yep, I--

I forgot that it's okay
for me to mess that up.

The door was also unlocked,
so you could've just...

right, sorry,
not the time.

Are you on his--?

Whose side
are you on?!

- I'm really tired.

I just woke up.

There was a lot
that happened.

I had to grab
a knife.

I didn't--

- What time is it?!

- Do you need
some water?

- Come in!

[laughter]

- Does anyone
have a sundial?

- Is this too much chest
for them?

- It's too much chest
for me!

]] It's too much chest
for all of us.

- You look pretty.

[Philip grunting]

DISCIPLES:
Bread!

JESUS: There's more
where that came from.

LAZARUS:
Let's go.

[laughs]
Three, four, four.

Here we play.

- A wing and a prayer.

All right.

[laughter]

- I wasn't
even ready!

I wasn't even
looking!

- You say that
all the time!

Since we were kids!

- That's--uh--
really?

You can't--
that's not!

That doesn't stick.

You're really going to--
okay.

That's it?

That's how you win
the game?

Complete cheat.

S-- [chuckles] sorry, Aaron,
not my strength.

LAZARUS/AARON:
Clearly!

[laughter]

JESUS: Baby James,
how does that wineskin feel?

LITTLE JAMES:
Umm...

[whispers]
Baby?

[laughing]

ANDREW: Keep going,
we got it, we got it.

PHILIP: Come on, come on,
come on.

- Thanks.

[Jesus restrains laughter]

]] We're there;
we have it.

[Matthew sighs]

LITTLE JAMES:
Stiff?

Not very flexible.

[laughter]

]] Plane.

- Here we plane.

Ah! I see what
you did there!

Ah-ha-ha!

Ah, you.

JESUS:
Sunglasses.

[crowd laughter and cheers]

[laughing and applause]

]] Jesus sees
everything.

JESUS:
See everything.

[laughter]

[laughter]

- Yayy!

- That's how
I get my robe down.

]] Action!

]] Action!

JESUS: And then you do
the hokey-pokey--

ANDREW:
We're almost there.

Just open the door.

[door opens]
Oof.

- Oh,
welcome back.

PHILIP:
Oh!

[heavy breathing]

Come again?

- Oh, bye!

]] Resetting!

- That was
a quick visit.

♪ Making food
for the homeless. ♪

DIRECTOR:
And action!

- Whoa, jackal!

- You're doing
great.

- I--I haven't
started yet.

- Oh.

]] Say we do it
again?

LAZARUS:
Keep it short.

You know,
it's...

my dance was
perfect before.

JESUS:
Would you...?

Eden, can you--
can you put--

put it so that the pickles
are right in front of me--

the cucumbers
are right--

EDEN:
No.

JESUS:
Okay, thanks.

[sheep bleats]

- Eema,
there are sheep in--

[sheep bleats]

- I love a banquet.

[thud]

I was gonna use that.

- ♪ Just the 12 of us-- ♪

]] Anybody move
my C-stand?

- ♪ We can make it if we try,
just the 12 of us. ♪

♪ You and I. ♪♪

- Shalom, my son.

[tearful]
- Shalom.

[Little James sighs, sniffles]

- Every single time.

Every single time.
[laughs]

DALLAS:
Cut.


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
