03x06 - Intensity in Tent City

[♪ musical swirl ♪]

[rocks clattering]

[♪ soft ethereal music ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ music gets louder ♪]

[gasping]

[breathing heavily]

[men wailing in distance]

[door squeaks open]

[hammer pounding]

ROMAN GUARD:
Quiet!!

[men wailing]

[whimpers]

GUARDS:
Be quiet!

[men crying out in pain]

PONTIUS: You'll catch
your death out there.

- Pontius,
four more...

and so early
in the morning?

- What time of day
is an ideal time to die?

I'm a governor,
not a philosopher.

- It's excessive!

The people already
resent you and...

Tiberius
will be loathe

to hear of
another insurrection.

PONTIUS: Four convicted
revolutionaries.

Jewish Zealots,
darling.

Leave the governing
to me, hmm?

Go back to bed.

- I haven't been
sleeping well.

- Hmm, then go pick
some flowers.

- And where
are you going?

PONTIUS:
I have a date.

- Oh?

- An old friend.

- Hmm.

You don't
have friends.

- I do so.

- You have
valuable contacts.

People whom
you find useful.

Strategic acquaintances.

- Maybe you
should be governor.

[light kiss]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Oh, child... ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪♪

[scraping sounds]

[bird call]

[scraping continues]

- What are you doing?

- You know, John and Thomas
healed a blind person once?

- I'd love
to do it again.

- I can see that you
are sharpening weapons,

but why?

- Some of us are worried,
Matthew.

Things are
becoming serious.

More people have heard.

You were there when
He healed the bleeding woman.

- Of course,
I wrote it all down,

but I did not see
what happened in the house.

- I said I'll give you
the details later.

- I don't want you
to forget.

- I told you
I won't forget.

BIG JAMES:
Crowds were pushing in,

a hobbling woman
was able to grab at Him.

- Only the fringe
of His garment, James.

- But the power went out of Him
without His consent.

- It looked like
He was gut-punched.

- He didn't say
that it hurt.

- No, it just
looked like it.

- If we had had blades,
we could have hurt her.

ZEE:
Might have had to.

BIG JAMES: Well, I know
someone who did have a blade,

he just neglected
to use it.

JOHN:
I was distracted.

You know I don't
do well in crowds.

- So what if he did?

We can't stab people
who get close to Him.

- And the irony is
iron sharpens iron--

JOHN: Don't you dare
finish that sentence.

- Nathanael
has a point.

If we had kept
the crowd at bay,

that poor woman would
never have been healed.

ZEE: I assessed that
He was in no real danger.

LITTLE JAMES: He just
wanted to know who did it.

- Yes,
He praised her faith.

He called her
"daughter."

- Philip, is that
one of Eden's knives?

- Yeah.

THADDEUS: I don't think
all of this paranoia

about protecting Jesus
is necessary.

- You just asked her
for it?

- Yeah, she mentioned
it hadn't been sharpened

in a long time.

[John laughing]

- I understand,
Simon.

What, with all the time
you're spending with your Roman.

- Gaius puts his sandals on
one foot at a time

just like
you and me.

- Gaius?

SIMON:
Yes, Matthew.

We're fixing
the cistern,

unless these ingrates like
trekking to the old well.

- Gaius is not
an evil man.

- Oh, wonderful.

Now we have two devoted fans
of a t*rror1st.

- Yes, he has
been ruthless,

but he is not like other
Roman soldiers I've met--

BIG JAMES: Associating with him
could hurt our reputation

with the pilgrims
in the tent city.

- Do we have
a reputation?

PHILIP: Reputation
has never really seemed like

a priority of His.

- If you're all
sharpening weapons,

should I be too?

SIMON: Matthew, you have
the sharpest weapon of all.

- His wit?

[laughing]

- His mind.

And your pen;

you can poke somebody in the eye
with it in a pinch.

- I could not
do that.

- I'll show you.

[scraping]

- If you need
anything sharpened,

just leave it there.

- Tell me about the one
you are sharpening.

- It's a dagger.

- Why don't you sharpen
a kitchen knife?

Or a utility knife?

Or an axe?

- A dagger is a weapon,
Nathanael.

- You could turn my kippah
into a weapon, Zee.

Why did you pick up
a dagger?

- I'm not sure I can
trust you with information.

- Fine.

Little James?

SIMON:
When you're writing,

you change your position
to this.

Okay, so you go
from here to here,

but you keep the book
like that,

because if
you're writing,

you pretend like
nothing's happening,

you stabilize
yourself,

and then a sharp
move forward.

Just change the thing
and then surprise them.

Don't be afraid;

I'm going to
show you how, okay?

[knife clicks]

LITTLE JAMES:
Hey, Zee?

What's going on?

[sighs]

- Members of the Order
have tracked me to Capernaum.

- Dangerous men?

- Lethal.

- So, tell Jesus.

- These men train a lifetime
for one thing... to k*ll.

Jesus cannot
be involved.

- You don't solve problems
with a dagger anymore, Zee.

- I will not
put Jesus in danger.

- Let Him
decide that.

SIMON:
He's doing what?

JOHN: He's buying
an olive grove.

Probably right about now,
actually.

Yeah, Judas and the women,
they're there with him.

- What does he want
with an olive grove?

- He's done
with fishing.

He wants to press
olive oil.

- Zebedee's
done fishing?

- Why do you care?

- [clears throat]
Dominus.

- Do you have brothers,
Gaius?

- Yes, sir,
one.

- Germanic origins
and you only have one?

- Yes.

- Hmm.

Older or younger?

- What?

- Your brother!

I could have you
drawn and quartered

for not answering me
the first time.

[glass thunks]

- Younger.

- Ah.

And did he ever tell on you
if you broke a dish,

stole a fruit,
did something with a girl?

- I do not often reminisce,
but yes.

- Atticus is meeting
with Pilate in Jerusalem,

and he's telling on me
like a meddling little brother.

He's there
right now,

slandering our oversight
of Capernaum.

I need Pilate's
endorsement

if I ever hope
to get a promotion.

- Your record
speaks for itself, dominus.

- You have utterly failed me
in the tent city.

- I will do better.

- You're not enforcing
the ordinances I suggested

and worst of all,
they have no money... zero.

No one works.

They're waiting around for
a spectacle from the Preacher,

who I might add,
I thought we were done with.

And jailing them
costs money, so.

- How can I
make it right?

- You could k*ll
Jesus of Nazareth.

Make a very public
display of it

so they have
no reason to stay.

But then they will revolt,
and it gets bloody,

and I hate the wailing.

Oh, I do hate
the death wailing.

I don't know
how Pilate does it.

Anyway,
we're not savages.

Let's get rid
of the tent city.

- What?

How can I do that?

Gaius!

Use your
imagination.

If you see
a damaged home... [zzzt]

tell them it's not up to code
and tear it down.

If you see somebody
who's sick,

arrest them for
spreading pestilence.

Somebody
selling wares...

[zzzt] tell them they
don't have permission

and shut them down.

Put out the fires,
Gaius,

until it's too cold, dark,
and miserable to stay!

Primi?

- I know what I must do,
dominus.

- Hmm.

[crickets chirping]

[latch clicks]

[door opens]

[door squeaks open]

[thuds onto floor]

ANDREW:
Who's that?

Who's there?

PHILIP:
What? What?

- Andrew, Philip,
it's me, Leander.

- Who?

- Okay,
take it easy.

- It's Leander,
from Naveh!

JUDAS:
Ugh!

Drop your knife!

Drop your knife!

- Oh, no, no,
I forgot I had this.

[knife thunks]

There you go;
sorry.

- Who are you?!

- What is
happening?

- You guys remember me,
right?

I was the one
who showed you out

when the Council
said you had to go.

- Leander?

- Yes!

- Leander.

- Why didn't you
just knock?!

- I did, but I didn't
want to shout.

- Why?

- Because no one
can know I'm here.

[breathing heavy]

- What's happened?

- The Decapolis is up in arms
because of you.

- What are you
talking about?

We didn't go to any cities
in the Decapolis.

- People from there
overheard you in Naveh,

like me,

and not everyone took it
as well as I did.

- Took what?

- Your preaching!

The consequences of your mission
were disastrous!

- Consequences?

- The Decapolis
is mostly Hellenist,

but it's also
a melting pot.

Jews, Romans,
Seleucids, Arabians--

- Sounds messy.

LEANDER:
It is.

ANDREW:
Shh!

LEANDER: It's already
barely holding it together,

your preaching
made it pffoo!!

The town
is on fire.

Well, not really on fire--
well, some places.

- I'm sorry,
I don't understand.

We only preached
to Jews.

LEANDER: It doesn't matter
who you were there for,

a few Greeks
overheard,

some Jews kept sharing
what you said.

Before you know it,

some Greeks quit
worshipping Olympian gods

or stopped reading
the auspices.

That made people angry,

and so they turned
on the Jews.

The Jews closed ranks

and sent the Hellenists
and sympathizers

out of their
communities.

- Oh, man...

you guys really turned
the place upside down!

Sorry.

You said
your teachings

were interrupted,
incomplete.

- Well, not by choice;
we were sent away.

- But what you
did say

spread to the ten cities
of the Decapolis.

The tensions we have in Naveh
boiled up everywhere.

The whole area.

- It's the new wineskins
bursting the old.

- People want
to know more.

They're hungry for the words
of your Rabbi, Jesus.

- It--it was
an isolated mission.

We were sent out two by two,
for a specific time,

to strengthen
and unify our people.

- Your mission
can't be over.

It's brother against brother
out there!

Is that what
you meant for us?

- Of course not!

- Then come back
and finish what you started.

- Next time,
knock louder!

[door squeaks open]

- Mary.

- Hey.

[market sounds, sheep bleating]

- Ugh!! [coughs]
We've been swindled!

- Hmm?

- The olives...
they're disgusting.

- We already
knew that;

we're working
on it.

[chomping]

- It doesn't
make sense.

If the soil
is bad,

then why are the grapes
so good?

MAGDALENE: We bought
an olive grove,

not a vineyard.

- We need to speak
with grape growers,

the best in
the upper Galilee.

- Why?

- Because they know
what they're doing.

They know the soil.

MAGDALENE:
Ask Ramah, okay?

She must have curated grapes
from this region for her wines.

- What are you doing
that's so important?

- I'm writing Ramah.

- I thought
you were bookkeeping.

- Judas keeps the books.

[background market noise]

- Are we okay?

- I thought you
were rude to Zebedee.

- At the oil tasting?

- Yes.

- I didn't mean
to be...

but I believed he was
asking our opinion.

- Well,
you gave it.

I don't think
I've ever heard a woman

speak to an elder
like that.

- What else?

- What do you mean?

Tamar, please.

- It's fine.

I don't need to know
what it is about me,

but I do have a right
to be concerned

when it comes
to our work.

This business is our
contribution to the ministry.

- We have more
to contribute

than just supporting
financially.

- You're right.

You always know
what to say.

You even correct the boys
when they fight.

- Why are you bringing
the boys into this?

- Is it because
I can't write or read?

- No.

- Then what?

- I...
what do you--

Do you really--?

[sighs]

You pushed your way
to the front of the crowd,

you tore the roof
off a house

and then you proclaimed
for all to hear,

"I know
You can do this."

And the first words out
of His mouth to you were,

"Your faith
is beautiful."

Do you know where
Jesus found me?

In a bar drunk,
possessed.

I pray every day

I will never be anywhere
without Him again,

but you just...
like it here.

That must be nice.

- You resent
how Jesus met us?

MAGDALENE: Of course not,
no, it's just that--

I am sorry
to say this,

I think we should be
more humble.

I'm doing everything I can,
day after day,

and I--I'm afraid
I'm still broken.

I worry I will
never be enough.

- Mary...
you are amazing!

Can't you see it?

- I don't think
we're supposed to see it.

I can't imagine
doing what you do.

I struggle to understand
your entitlement.

Where is
your curiosity?

You don't even know
the pain of our people,

or our ways.

You just show up
and you do everything loudly

and boldly and...
right!

You do everything
right!

- Well...
I am sorry.

- Please don't
apologize--

TAMAR:
No, I mean,

I am sorry for the shame
and regret that you feel.

Truly, it must be
very painful.

But Jesus forgave you,

and you choose
to hold onto it.

And just because
I'm not Jewish

doesn't mean
I don't know pain.

You don't know what
it cost me to get here.

- What are you doing?

[Tamar sniffs]

- What do you see?

- I don't understand.

- There...
between the beads.

What do you see?

- A stain.

Is that dried--

- Blood.

I come from
a w*r-torn country.

My brother and I
were on a trip

to unearth minerals
for the family business.

And when
we returned...

our village had been wiped out
by a rival clan...

including my father
and my mother.

- This necklace...

that has been passed down
through generations,

that I didn't want
to sell for just oats,

it still has
my mother's blood on it.

[♪ soft music ♪]

[softly crying]

- [sighs]

May I?

Here, please.

[crying]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

I--I lost my father
suddenly too.

And the thing he gave me
to remember him by,

I-I tore up
and I threw away.

- I should have
told you sooner.

- I judged your strength
against my weakness;

pitied myself.

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[sniffs]
Forgive me?

I'd do well to have
some of what you have.

[sighs]

My head
is spinning.

I don't know
the right thing to say.

- Finally.

[both laughing]

- I appreciate how hard you've
worked on the olive grove.

And you're right,

we don't need
to ask Ramah

who the best grape growers are
in this region.

- What about
the soil?

- You know my past.

You think I don't know
the best vineyard in town?

[laughing]

It's just outside of town...
a nice walk.

- [sighs]

We could use
some fresh air.

Are you okay
with going?

- Okay,
let's do it.

- Mary...

[sniffs]

I could use some
of what you have, too;

maybe not
the shame...

but the gratitude.

- Fair enough.

[horse hooves clip-clop]

♪ ♪

[sighs]

[horse breathing hard]

[paper rustles]

- Should I do it?

- Do what?

Announce your position to any
opportunist that happens by?

- Yes!

I wondered how can I annoy
a red-bottomed old man.

All it took was six men
and this stupid tent.

- Old man?

What can I say?

[pats horse]

Well done?

- You know how easy
I am to amuse.

- No, you are definitely
not easily amused.

I'm surprised there's
no wine and women.

- I don't drink wine
for the effect,

and I'm married,
so there.

But I admit I was reading
Miles Gloriosus by Plautus.

Do you know it?

It's hilarious.

- About the vainglorious,
swaggering, braggart soldier.

- Yes!

- What are you saying?

I had you.

- You did not.

- I did.

- Yes, you did.

Why are you
charming?

Haven't you been undercover
for a year?

It's been a year
since I've seen you!

- I've, uh, had a foil
the last few months.

- Some prost*tute
in Decapolis?

- Far less charming,
I'm afraid.

The Praetor
of upper Galilee.

He slips
occasionally

and claims
the whole of Israel.

- Hmm,
I'll k*ll him.

Wait, Galilee
does well.

- Yeah,
don't k*ll him.

- [sighs]
Let me think.

His name is Quintus.

Revenues are strong.

He was reprimanded
for use of force

after putting down
an uprising last year.

- That's him,

and he'd be all too honored
by your recital.

He's the kind of man that
wants to be remembered.

- Mm.

We are
very different then.

See, my problem
with his reprimand

is that I have been reprimanded
for my use of force.

So, if word spreads
that everyone in Israel

is heavy-handed,

then I have to be
even less forceful.

How was the repartee?

- I tormented him...
for you, Governor.

- Just for me,
hmm?

I don't believe you,
but thank you.

What I really
want to know

is what landed you
in Capernaum?

From the top.

Please, I've got
all afternoon for this.

- Really?

- No, about
ten more minutes.

[Pontius laughs]

- I'll be fast.

[water trickling]

TAMAR:
I'm thinking that--

I'm going
to ruin my dress.

We should've
gotten aprons.

I think we're going to need
a lot more wood ash.

- I know.

- Ah.

- We have
been waiting for you.

There's so much
to do.

- To do?

MAGDALENE: We solved
the olive problem.

- I thought it was just
the way the oil was made

that upset you.

There was a problem
with the olives themselves,

other than being
too dark?

- It was terrible.

It tasted like
sour milk and wet hay.

MAGDALENE: We knew it had to be
something to do with the soil.

- So, Mary introduced us
to some grape vendors

from the region,

that she used to know
back at The Hammer.

- Uh, are these good men,
Mary?

- Not really,
but they know the ground.

- And they showed us ways to
improve the quality of the soil

of the grove
that we purchased.

First we add wood ash
to the topsoil near the roots.

- So we need you
to go

to each of
the disciple's houses

and have them to bring
whatever ash they have here,

then send them
out into town

offering to clean out people's
wood-burning stoves.

- All of the disciples?

- Yes.

- [chuckling] I'm not sure
I have the authority.

What if Jesus
needs them?

- No one has seen Him
since the healing.

We're just trying
to be productive

with the time we have
while we wait.

- But He did
give us His blessing

on purchasing
the grove

so we could support Him
out of our own means.

- What is that?

- That is water, vinegar,
and pine needles.

The grape people said
it would "make the trees sing."

- They said it's like magic,
but not sinful.

- That's an
important detail.

TAMAR:
Oh, and--

one more thing,
sulphur.

They said to add it
to the wood ash.

- So we need you
to go to the market

and buy as much
as they have available.

And if
that's a lot,

maybe have one of the boys
to help you carry it back.

Probably Big James.

- I'm not sure
I have the cash

to buy up all the sulphur
the vendors have available.

TAMAR: Well, Joanna
sent more money.

Judas put it
in the safe upstairs.

- I'll get it for you,
Zebedee.

Be right back.

- Hmm.

If James and John
had been as enthusiastic

and hard-working
as you two...

I'd be retired
and living in a mansion.

- Hmm.

- [chuckles]

You know,
because I'd be rich--

- Hmm.

--from catching
so much fish, hmm?

[chuckles]

It's a joke.

- Hmm.

- [laughs]
Hmm.

[key jiggles lock open]

[♪ soft music ♪]

♪ ♪

[closes box]

ATTICUS:
The population of the camp

outside Capernaum's walls
grows by the day.

- In hopes of seeing
the peaceful Preacher?

- Peaceful and magnetic.

I think Quintus
is out of his depth.

[sighs]

- They say this is
a backwater, you know?

A bad assignment...

A punishment even.

- I guess we're sharing
the same cell then.

- I'm content.

I don't want to rule
over a warring nation

in important times.

I-I like the sea.

I like the people.

They're poetic
and complicated.

Except Caiaphas.

Horrible,
horrible man.

- For a moment there,

you almost sounded
like a holy man yourself.

- [scoffs]
I wish.

I can't see ten cubits
in front of my face most days.

I just want peace.

I want the people
to get what they want,

for Rome to be sated.

- Sometimes peace
takes a w*r.

[whistles and snaps fingers]

I do thank you
for the intelligence, Atticus,

and I trust you.

If the peaceful Preacher
or His movement

ever become something
I need to know about,

I will need
your counsel.

And I will listen.

Unlike Quintus,
I understand your interest.

Until then,
learn all you can.

Take care of yourself,
Atticus.

- I will see you soon,
Governor Pilate.

- Mmm... mm.

Wow.

This soup's
really good.

- Thank you.

- What's in it?

- Carrots, vegetable stock,
olive oil.

You've had it before,
Simon.

- No, but today
it's a beautiful thing.

Fit for kings,
this soup.

And the bread,
mmm!

What--what's this
on top?

- You know
what it is, Simon.

SIMON: I can tell
it's thyme and sesame seeds,

but I've never seen
this red spice before.

- Sumac,
Salome gave it to me.

- It has almost
like a--

like a... a tart,
you know?

A lemon,
lemon sweetness, huh?

But not sweeter
than you.

BIG JAMES: Simon!
Simon, are you home?

[knocking on door]

- What if I just
don't respond?

- I mean... the light
is coming through the windows.

[knocking louder]

BIG JAMES:
Simon, it's urgent!

- I'm coming,
I'm coming!

Stop your pounding.

[door squeaks open]

Yeah, I'd love it if you guys
could make this quick.

- There's two men from Judea
demanding to see Jesus.

- Welcome to Capernaum,

where everyone
demands to see Jesus.

Tell them we don't know
where He is,

because that's
the truth.

Good night.

- They claim to be disciples
of John the Baptizer,

that they bear
an important message from John.

- A message?

Why wouldn't he have
given it to Andrew

when that woman
from Herod's court--

what was her name?

- Jonna, Junia,
something with a J.

- Joanna.

- When Joanna snuck Andrew
into prison?

JOHN: That was
over a month ago.

They said
they cannot wait.

- But they could
be spies

from any
of the Four Philosophies,

or even from Rome--

- So send Philip or Andrew
to verify their identities,

you know,
their old comrades.

- What universe
have you been living in?

- What?

- Andrew and Philip
are gone.

- You didn't know that?

- I'm not
my brother's keeper.

- Oh, except when
you want to be,

then it's
The Code of Hammurabi.

- Take the log
out your eye, John.

Don't think I haven't
noticed the thing

between you two
lately.

- Well,
we're here now,

working together
to find a solution.

- Where did Andrew
and Philip go?

- To the Decapolis
for some reason.

Judas has
the details.

But right now we need you
to come and see if these guys

can actually prove
that they know Andrew.

- I'm in the middle of
having dinner with my wife.

It can wait
until morning.

BIG JAMES: What if the message
from John's disciples

is about impending threat
from Herod?

He may have
heard something.

JOHN: It cannot wait
until morning.

- Oh, but John,
it can.

[door clicks shut]

See, dear?

I can say no
to work too.

Eden?

[crickets chirping]

[background market noise]

JOHN: Their names
are Avner and Nadab.

- Oh.

Where are they?

- Just over there.

- Simon,
son of Jonah,

these brothers were right
to question our identity.

- There are strict edicts
coming out of Jerusalem

about false prophecy.

Your suspicion
is warranted.

- True or false,
Andrew is a fine dancer.

[laughing]

- False.

- Absolutely the worst.

- True or false
when Andrew relieves himself,

he wretches and gags
because he hates the smell.

- We wouldn't know.

He always goes
so far away

in the wilderness
to do it

because he's shy
about that sort of--

- Uh-huh.

BIG JAMES: Nice,
trick question.

SIMON: The Baptizer's
being held

in a maximum security
prison

that does not permit
visitors or mail,

if he sent you with a message,
how could you get it?

AVNER: A woman from
Herod's court, Joanna--

- All right,
I believe you...

what's the message?

[hammer pounding]

[pounding continues]

[♪ soft music ♪]

[pounding]

[♪ foreboding music ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ music swells ♪]

[indistinct conversations]

[man coughing]

[sheep bleating]

[coughing again]

[♪ soft music ♪]

- Good morning.
- Good morning.

It's all right.

It's all right.

ELDERLY PILGRIM:
Thank you.

All is well.

[♪ intense music ♪]

- I recognize you
from the Order.

- Mine will be
the last face you see.

- I suppose
you could k*ll me,

but my Rabbi's
will be the face

that awaits me
in heaven.

- Is that why
you turned traitor?

- I joined the Order to fight
for the Messiah's coming.

And He is here,
brothers.

GAIUS: It was chilly
last night.

It looks like your tent
is damaged.

PILGRIM FATHER:
Right, yes.

- Need a hand?

- I'm certain
that is a Roman Soldier.

Taxes are
still collected.

- Yes.

And the Kingdom of Heaven
is at hand.

- This is no kingdom...
that I've ever been promised.

[spits]

- He is not what
we thought, brothers.

I have bet
my life on it.

I have given up the sica
and our way of life

to follow the Christ

after I witnessed
the healing of my brother.

- That's it?

That's what you want me
to ask Him?

- Yes.

- We'll tell Him
when we see Him.

- I'm sorry, how soon
can we expect a response?

- You want to know how soon
you can expect a response.

Let me tell you something
about that word "soon."

[running footsteps]

[excited voices]

- What's going on?

- You want your answer?

He's back.

[♪ uptempo music ♪]

[overlapping running footsteps]

♪ ♪

[laughing]

[cheers and applause]

WOMAN: Please, the doctors say
the only remedy is to amputate.

- Amputate?

Well, now...

that does not
look good at all.

♪ ♪

[joyful laughing]

[cheers and applause]

NATHANAEL: Next, next,
step right up, right here.

- What's going on?

How long has
He been here?

- Not long.

As soon as He showed up,
He was surrounded.

He's safe,
He'll be--

MOTHER:
Blessed be Adonai!

The Teacher has healed
my son's blindness!

[cheers and applause]

NATHANAEL:
Next, come.

It's okay.

- Let's get you closer.

"Soon" might be now.

Let's get John's
question answered.

- I know.

I know.

♪ ♪

JESUS: Nathanael,
let me see your knife.

[knife thuds on ground]

[former mute gasps]

[trying to speak]

[crowd gasps]

- I've...

never said anything
with my own words.

[crying]

JESUS: Where would you
like to start?

[former mute crying]

- Blessed are You,
Lord Our God,

King of the Universe!

- Let's save those big titles
for a little later.

[crying]

PETER:
Master.

- Ah, yes,
who do we have here?

- These are two
of your cousin's disciples,

Avner and Nadab.

- Jesus of Nazareth.

- That name
I respond to readily,

though I'll not be returning
to Nazareth in this lifetime.

SIMON: The Baptizer has
an urgent question for you.

- I recognize you from the day
John introduced me to Andrew.

- Behold
the Lamb of God

Who comes to take away
the sin of the world.

- Yes,
good memory.

[chuckles]

My cousin
can get excited.

So... [clap]
what does John want to know?

- Eh?

- Simon brought us
in haste.

This isn't
appropriate here;

we can talk later.

- Simon?

- I actually think
now is the perfect time.

- Who here has experienced
John the Baptizer in some way?

[crowd responds]

I know some of you
rejected John...

but some of you
believed his message.

He has had a profound impact
on so many in this region,

and these are two
of his disciples,

so, let's welcome them,
hmm?

[applause]

Some of you
may also know

that John is
currently imprisoned

by Herod
in Machaerus.

I think it would
be instructive

for us to hear
what's on his mind

in the midst
of such challenge.

- It's a difficult
question.

It might be better
privately.

- It's fine.

This is healthy.

- [clears throat]

He sent us
to ask You

if You are really the One
who is to come...

or should we look
for someone else?

- Say that last part
again?

- Should we look
for someone else?

- Hmm.

[louder] For those of you
who could not hear,

John the Baptizer,
my cousin,

who has prepared
the way for Me,

is now questioning
if I'm the Messiah

or if maybe
we should keep waiting.

[chuckles]

John is getting
impatient, yes?

It's one of
his quirks.

- He has been in prison
a long time.

- Word reached our ears about
what happened in Nazareth,

that You said,

"The Spirit of the Lord
is upon You

to proclaim liberty
to the captives."

AVNER: If you say You are here
to free prisoners,

then why does he
remain?

He rightfully wonders
why You would allow

his entire ministry to be
halted by an imposter king.

- Proclaiming liberty
to the captives

can mean more than
just freeing inmates.

There are many kinds
of captivity

that keep people.

- Is that what we're
supposed to tell him?

- No,
that's just for you.

AVNER: We heard
our former comrades,

Andrew and Philip,
have gone to the Decapolis.

Is that where you're planning
to launch the revolution

to overthrow Rome?

JESUS: I have something in mind
for the Decapolis,

and it will be
revolutionary,

but... probably not
in the way you're thinking.

NADAB: What are we
supposed to report back?

- Careful.

Careful.

- Go and tell John
what you hear and see.

The blind
receive their sight,

the lame walk,

the lepers
are cleansed,

the mute speak,

and the poor have the good news
preached to them.

And blessed is the one
who is not offended by Me.

- I will always be offended
by blasphemy.

As should all of you!

SIMON: You saw what happened
to his daughter!

You know
this isn't blasphemy!

RABBI AKIVA:
I did not see what happened.

Your supposed Rabbi
disrespected me as a holy man,

another sign
of His evil spirit.

And I also don't know any
of the details that happened.

He is hiding
something,

and I cannot stand here and
allow you all to be deceived

by His sorcery...

even if I'm the only one
willing to protect you.

- Go,
relay to my cousin

what you have seen
and heard here today,

and add to that,
the dead are raised as well.

And tell John
I love him.

Did My response
to the Baptizer's disciples

sound to any of you
like a rebuke?

- Yes.

- I can always count
on you, Nathanael.

Many of you were
baptized by John.

I Myself
was baptized by him.

You heard
how strong he was,

how passionately
he believed,

and yet now...
even he has questions.

When you went to
the wilderness to see him,

did you expect to see a reed,
shaken by the wind?

Someone in fine clothing
like those in kings' courts?

Or did you go
to see a prophet?

MAN IN CROWD:
A prophet!

- A prophet,
yes.

And I tell you,

John is who Isaiah
and Malachi spoke of.

What did they say,
Big James?

- "Behold, I send
my messenger before you,

who will prepare the way
before you."

- Yes, and this should
tell you something.

Among those born of women,
none is greater than John,

and even he
has questions.

RABBI AKIVA: Another
demon-possessed blasphemer,

and You call him great.

He called
Your religious leaders,

Your men of God,
vipers!

Are You going
to say something?!

SIMON: I think His silence
is His response.

- And here's what's
so wonderful, though,

none are greater than John
here on earth.

In the kingdom
of God,

the one who is the least
is even greater than he.

And John himself
would say the same.

So, please...
listen carefully.

Do not waste the time
right now

to hear the truth
that I have for you.

The Kingdom of Heaven
is at hand,

yet so many in this generation
are missing it.

Do not miss it.

Those of you who have rejected
John's message of repentance,

and those who are
now rejecting Mine...

you remind Me of the children
in the marketplace

that play games
while the adults are busy.

And you know how they pretend
to be adults in a wedding,

or even a funeral.

You are like the children
who refuse to play.

Whether it's a happy game
or a sad game,

it doesn't matter
what it is.

And like Aesop's fables,
the others say,

"We played the flute for you,
and you did not sing.

We sang a dirge,
and you did not weep."

You and those in your order
say John has a demon

because he lived
in the wilderness,

preaching repentance while
refusing bread and drink.

And now the Son of Man comes
preaching salvation

while eating and drinking
and dancing...

and I'm called a glutton
and a drunkard,

a friend of tax collectors
and sinners.

It doesn't matter
what is put in front of you,

you will reject it!

[♪ soft music ♪]

Beware of this...

wisdom means nothing
if it's not acted on.

Wisdom is justified
by all her works.

As you see what is happening
to those around you,

as you see the lives
being changed

by repentance
and salvation,

do not ignore the evidence
of the kingdom of God.

Woe to you
if you do you not receive it.

JAIRUS:
Pardon!

I would like
to remind everyone

um, that Quintus has imposed
a limit of 25 people

for all outdoor
gatherings

in the latter part
of the day.

By my estimate, uh,

we will very soon
be at risk of detainment.

GAIUS:
That man is right!

All of you

return to your homes
and shelters immediately.

I said
immediately!

RABBI YUSSIF:
Let's return to our homes.

It's all right.

RABBI AKIVA:
I will report all of this!

You are deceiving!

- I said,
"Go home."

[crowd conversations]

- Do you
understand now?

- I understand very little
of what I--

what I heard...

even less
of what I saw.

- The Messiah does not
need our daggers.

- Maybe you've forgotten
what the Order stands for,

but we haven't--

- Enough!

Are you blind?

This is not
a traitor.

- You could join me.

- I'll find
my own path...

but I will return to the Order
with the truth.

Simon the Sicarius
is dead.

[♪ soft music ♪]

[deep sigh]

- I can never decide
what is more fun,

watching You do miracles
or watching the reactions.

- The miracles
are so much better

when the Pharisees
are around.

- All right,

we need to get You
to a new place.

Is there a camp
we should take You to,

or do You want to stay
at Simon's again?

Probably will be best
to get You to a new place,

maybe with Andrew?

I think it would be...
best--

- Who is it?
Why did we stop?

- It's Him.

- Barnaby, we don't need
to bother Him.

JESUS:
It's fine, Shula.

I'm grateful you
brought Barnaby here

for the healing
of his leg.

- No, I brought her.

She's--
she's the one who--

- I know, Barnaby.
[laughing]

- [laughing]
Of course.

Please...
she won't ask.

- Shula...

are you afraid
to ask for healing?

- Yes.

- Do you have faith
that I can heal you?

- Of course.

- Then why
haven't you asked?

- You have so much
to do, Rabbi,

so many people
who need You more.

I'm--
I'm used to this.

- Shula,
look at Me.

- Look at You?

I can't see You
anyway.

- I want to see
your face.

You and Barnaby have been
so kind and lovely

from the first time
I met you,

and your faith
has been so strong,

even though you haven't
seen a miracle.

- You redeemed
my friend.

Mary's miracle
was so clear to me,

I didn't need sight.

JESUS:
I know.

You see better than most
in this region.

But... since your friend Barnaby
here won't leave me alone.

[laughing]

[♪ soft music ♪]

[shuddered breaths]

[Jesus exhales, Shula gasps]

[Shula cries]

- Well?

Did it work?

- It's been so long...
I'm afraid to look.

- It's time,
Shula.

[gasps]

[shuddered breaths]

- Well,
did it?

- Yes,
it worked!

[laughing]

I can see you're not
as handsome as you said.

[laughing]

- [crying]
Thank you!

- I don't remember everything
being so bright.

JOHN:
How long has it been?

- Over 10 years.

Oh, thank You.

Thank You.

Thank You.

Thank you, friend.

What about him?

BARNABY:
No... I'm fine.

This is about you.

This is about her;
some other time, maybe.

- We'll see.

You're a true friend.

Well, now, friends,
we must all get home, hmm?

Barnaby, she will still
need you to walk her home.

It's getting late.

Shalom, shalom.

TOGETHER:
Shalom, shalom.

- Thank you.

- I'll take this
from you.

I don't think
you need it anymore.

- [laughing]
No.

[laughing]

- Wait a minute!

- There it is.

- My leg!

[cane clunks onto ground]

[stomping and laughing]

Did You?!

- Of course He did,
Barnaby, who else?

[loud, joyous laughter]

- Thank you!
Thank you! Thank you!

- You're welcome,
Barnaby.

Now, get Shula
to her home.

You can do it faster
than normal tonight, huh?

[laughing]

- Shula!

[laughter]

- No Pharisees around
for this one.

- Still...
just as fun.

[sniffs]

- Agreed.

[crickets chirping]

[water trickling]

[door squeaks open]

SIMON:
Eden?

Where are you?

Come here
for a second.

Do you remember
Shula?

Never mind,
anyway,

so the guys ended up
being Andrew's old friends.

So, I used questions
that only someone

who truly knows Andrew
would know,

and it worked.

Suddenly, Jesus
was in the square

healing all
those people,

and He recognized John's
disciples from somewhere,

and they wanted to know
if He was the real thing,

which was crazy,

given everything
they'd just seen.

- I lost the baby.

- What?

- You didn't know.

- Say that again?

- Our baby.

- You were with child?

- You were gone
when I found out.

- No, no, no,
no this--

- And you were gone
when I miscarried.

- Were you
working too hard?

- No, and that's not
what causes these things.

- Why didn't
you tell me?

EDEN: Because I didn't
want to distract you.

I didn't want to make you
regret your choice.

Because what could be
more important than--

I thought that I could
just keep it to myself,

but I didn't know the hurt
would go on so long.

SIMON: Eden,
this happened weeks ago?

- See,
I was right.

Look how you're
handling this.

- Well, I have a right
to grieve my own child!

EDEN:
I know.

I know.

There's no
right answer.

SIMON:
No, the right answer

would have been
to tell your husband.

- Are you mad
that it happened

or that I didn't handle it
the way you wanted?

- I'm not mad.

- You're furious;
I can see it.

- I'm furious?!

You were acting like
I did something wrong!

I had no idea
what was going on!

I was taking advice
from a Roman!

What did I do wrong?

- You didn't do
anything!

- What?

- You did
nothing!

You asked
nothing!

You came home
from being gone,

and you didn't even
ask how I was.

You didn't offer
to help with anything,

you just took a nap.

- You told me to!

EDEN: Yes, because I was
being considerate of you.

Because I was showing love
to you while I was in pain,

but I didn't know
you would rush to bed

and then have the boys
over the next day.

- You told me
to take a nap.

Am I supposed
to read your mind?

- Well, you were happy
to read my body.

It might be nice for you
to try to read my mind.

SIMON: That's not fair,
and you know that.

EDEN:
I know that's not fair.

I know I wasn't
always right.

I know, I know,
I know.

I was a little distracted
from losing my own--

[crying]

- You're upset
I was on a mission.

- You're putting words
in my mouth.

- But were they
in your head?

- Don't ask me that.

You can't ask me that.

- I'm sorry!

I'm sorry
for everything!

He should never
have called me!

- Oh, see, this is--
this is what I was afraid of.

- Stupid mission
to Caesarea with Judas.

- Leave Jesus
out of this.

This is between us.

It is not
His problem.

- Well...
He's the Messiah.

If it's not His problem,
whose is it?

[deep sighs]

[♪ tender music ♪]

You're the one
comforting me?

- I've had a lot
more time with it.

SIMON:
Why did it happen?

I don't understand.

Why? Why? Why?
Why? Why? Why?

- You're asking
the wrong person.

[crying]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
