03x01 - Homecoming

[♪ musical swirl ♪]

[rocks clattering]

[market noise]

[loud knocking]

- Alphaeus bar Jehoram?

- Yes.

- You are 20 days
past your deadline

for this quarter's tribute.

Your collector has transferred
your case to the Roman office.

Are you able to pay
your tribute penalty now?

- I filed an extension
in the month of--

- I'll take that
as a no.

By decree of Quintus,
honorable Praetor of Capernaum,

I will remand you
into custody.

- I'm very sorry,
I didn't realize--

- Turn around.

- Sir,
I didn't realize.

May I request an extension
of just five days?

[groans]

ELISHEVA:
- Alphaeus?

Who is it?

- Everything's fine,
Elisheva!

Please,
I beg you...

[groans]

[whispering]
Adonai in heaven.

- He's not here.

MATTHEW: I can
settle this, Lucius.

There's actually
been a mistake.

- What do you mean?

You told me to--

- I am aware,
but...

I've realized the timelines
were miscalculated.

I will clear it up,
thank you.

- You...
miscalculated?

- I received
inaccurate information,

and I--it's being
corrected right now.

I will handle this,

it would be best if you
went to our next house,

and I will meet you
at the booth in one hour.

- Are you...

- It isn't prudent
to discuss this now, Abba,

we don't have much--

- First the shame
of your choice...

and now you are actually
my collector?

ELISHEVA
- Matthew?

What are you
doing here?

- Your son
is our publicanus.

- Matthew,
no!!

- He sent a soldier
to your home.

- I'm sorry,
I didn't want you to know,

I didn't choose
this district.

- You chose
this job!

The Romans never
forced you into it,

you chose to apply,
you chose to betray--

- I chose
a secure future.

- You are called
to trust in Adonai

with all your heart,

and not lean on
your own understanding.

- I have trusted!

Can you name one thing Adonai
has done for our people...

in a hundred
years?

Five hundred?

- Matthew.

- A traitor
and a blasphemer.

- Well.

You owe your government
two months of tribute.

- I will bring in a payment
by the end of the week.

- You've missed
two payments.

I was hoping Lucius
could convince you,

but I will no longer
protect you.

- I don't want
your protection.

- Then you have


- Don't call me
"Abba."

- Alphaeus,
please.

- What?

- Elli, cover the windows,
put on your veil.

We will sit shiva
for seven days.

[Elisheva cries]

I have no son.

[door slams]

JESUS: You have heard that
it was said to those of old,

"You shall not m*rder;

and whomever murders
will be liable to judgment."

But I say to you,

everyone who is angry
with his brother

will be liable
to judgment.

So if you are offering
your gift at the altar,

and there remember
that your brother

has something
against you,

leave your gift there
before the altar and go.

First be reconciled
to your brother,

and then come
and offer your gift.

Therefore,
I tell you,

do not be anxious
about your life...

what you will eat
or what you will drink,

nor about your body,
what you will put on.

Is not life
more than food...

and the body
more than clothing?

Look at the birds
of the air:

they neither sow
nor reap

nor gather
into barns,

yet your heavenly Father
feeds them.

Are you not of more value
than they?

And which of you
by being anxious

can add a single hour
to his span of life?

Therefore do not
be anxious, saying,

"What shall we eat?"

"What shall we drink?"

or
"What shall we wear?"

For the Gentiles
seek all these things,

and your heavenly Father
knows you need them all.

But seek first
the kingdom of God

and His righteousness,

and all these things
will be added to you.

So whatever you wish
that others would do to you,

do also to them,

for this is the Law
and the Prophets.

[in background] Judge not,
that you be not judged.

- How's He doing?

- With the sermon?

The words are the same
as written, but...

- But now
He's saying them.

- [tearfully]
Yes.

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Oh, child... ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪♪

- You have heard
that it was said,

"An eye for an eye
and a tooth for a tooth."

But I say to you,

Do not resist
the one who is evil.

And if anyone should slap you
on your right cheek,

turn and give him
the other one also.

And if anyone would sue you
and take your tunic,

let him have
your cloak as well.

You have heard
that it was said,

"You shall love your neighbor
and hate your enemy."

But I say to you,

Love your enemies,

and pray for those
who persecute you,

so that you may be sons of
your Father who is in heaven.

How can you say
to your brother,

"Let me--"

Consider the lilies
of the field,

how they grow:

they neither toil
nor spin,

yet I tell you--

Why do you see
the speck

that is in
your brother's eye

but do not notice the log
in your own eye?

Your Father knows what you need
before you ask Him.

Pray then like this:

"Our Father
in heaven...

hallowed
be Your name."

And if anyone should
force you to go one mile,

go with him
two miles.

"Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,

"on earth
as it is in heaven.

Give us this day
our daily bread--"

Give to the one
who begs from you.

"--and forgive us
our debts,

"as we also have
forgiven our debtors.

"And lead us not
into temptation,

but deliver us
from evil."

Do not lay up for yourselves
treasures on earth...

where moth and rust
destroy

and thieves
break in and steal,

but lay up for yourselves
treasures in heaven,

where neither moth
nor rust destroys

and where thieves
do not break in and steal.

For where
your treasure is,

there your heart
will be also.

Everyone who hears
these words of mine

and does not do them

will be like
a foolish man

who built his house
on the sand.

And the rain fell,

and the floods came,

and the winds blew
and beat against that house,

and it fell,

and great
was the fall of it.

And everyone who hears
these words of mine

and does them

will be like
a wise man

who built his house
on the rock.

And the rain fell,

and the floods came,

and the winds blew
and beat on that house,

but it
did not fall,

because it had been founded
on the rock.

[crowd noise]

PILGRIM 1: You ever hear
anything like that?

PILGRIM 2: Not that
kind of authority.

He spoke with
actual authority.

His own,
not from someone else.

- Yes,
almost above the law.

- Shhh!

BARNABY: Consider
the lilies, He said!

How they neither
toil nor spin--

- --Yet I tell you,

even Solomon
in all his glory--

- --was not like
one of these.

[crowd noise]

- Judas!

- Hadad!

- I lost you.

Did you find
those guys?

- I stood with
His followers.

- Could you see
the people's faces?

I've never seen
a crowd so moved.

The "turn the other cheek

and lay up treasures in heaven"
business

was a little naive,

but this man
has talent!

- No, I've never seen
anything like it.

- Oh, can you imagine
if He sold for us?

- Hadad?

- Why didn't they
take up a collection?

They could be
living like kings.

- I'm going
with them.

- What?

- I'm leaving.

I quit.

I'm going with
His followers.

- [chuckles]
Where?

- I don't know.

The ends
of the earth.

Everywhere this message
needs to be heard.

- I'll sue you.

- I renounce
my shares.

- I'll sue Him!

- [scoffs] There is nothing
you could take from Him

that'd be of
any value to you.

- What does He have
to give you then?

[sighs]

[pats back]

- Good luck,
Hadad.

- Well?

- Hmm.

- My thoughts
exactly.

See you in the morning then
for our report to Quintus.

- Mm-hmm.

[Atticus chuckles]

- Good chat.

- Thank you.

Thank you.

MATTHEW:
I was able to write down

many of the new things
you said,

but not all of them.

- That's fine.

I will say them again
and we can discuss them then.

MATTHEW: I recognize
some of them from my studies

of the teachings
of Rabbi Hillel.

- That's very good,
Matthew.

- When you said to
be reconciled to your brother,

can you
elaborate on--

- Matthew...

perhaps we can
talk about this

some other time?

I'm very hungry,

and I would love to chat
with our new friend

about a few things.

- Oh... I'm sorry,
I can come back.

- No, no, no,
no, it's okay.

I'm gathering everyone
together shortly.

I would love
to speak with you.

Matthew, can you help
James and John

gather the others?

- Right now?

- Mm-hmm.

Matthew...

thank you
for helping me.

- Yes, Rabbi.

- So...

- I'm Judas
of Kerioth.

- Shalom, Judas.

- Shalom.

- I saw you before I stepped
out to talk to the people,

and then I noticed you
listening very intently

during my sermon.

- It was wonderful.

- Thank you.

And then Nathanael
briefly told me

how you
gave us help

and how you might be
interested in joining us.

He's not easy
to impress.

- Ah.

I attended
beit midrash,

but my father
passed away

before I could
pursue a rabbi,

so I stayed home
to work.

I would like
to follow You.

- You would?

- Very much.

I may not be
a soldier in battle,

but I have business
and financial skills,

that I would
like to use

to spread this ministry
far and wide,

as fast as possible.

I did attend
the beit midrash.

[Jesus chuckling]

I heard you
the first time.

I do not require that
of my followers;

you would actually
be one of the few.

I only require
what other rabbis do...

that you seek
to be like Me.

- Of course.

- But that will be
much more difficult with Me

than with other rabbis,
I can assure you.

Are you ready
to do hard things?

- I believe You are going
to change the world...

and I want to be
a part of that.

I'm willing
to make sacrifices,

and I have.

I am accustomed
to laws.

So, yes...
yes.

I'm ready to do
hard things.

- We will see.

So...

the meaning
of your name...

- Ah, uh...

"God be praised."

- Yes,
with your hands.

Will you praise God?

- Every day.

- Well, in that case,
Judas...

follow Me.

- Thank you, Rabbi.

BIG JAMES:
Everyone is here, Rabbi.

- Good, uh-oh.

[applause]

All right,
that's good...

that's enough.
[chuckles]

Well,

I just want to thank you all
for... a wonderful day today.

Barnaby, Shula,
come on in.

Did you approve
of the sermon?

- A little long...
but effective.

- It was wonderful.

- Well, you all did your part
in spreading the word,

which is vital
to our ministry.

And let's especially
thank Nathanael, Thad,

and Little James

for their part
in getting us the land

and setting this up
so quickly.

[applause]

And I know you'll all help them
clean up before you go.

And I also have a quick
announcement to make.

A few of you
met him earlier,

but for those who haven't,
this is Judas of Kerioth.

Judas has just asked me
to be his Rabbi

and to contribute some of
his talents to our ministry,

a request
I was happy to grant.

So let's please welcome Judas
to the group.

[applause]

Well, it's been quite a journey
these last several weeks.

A lot of good work
has been done,

and there's quite a lot more
to do in the future.

But for now, let's all
get some rest, hmm?

Especially you,
Simon.

You need to get home.

After the joy
of having you gone wore off,

Eden has actually
started to miss you,

so...
you two take a break.

Come in;
come, come, come, come.

Now, you'll all be able to
figure out amongst yourselves

how to stay in touch

so we can get together
again soon,

but for now,
let Me pray over you.

[deep sigh]

"The Lord bless you
and keep you.

"The Lord make His face
shine upon you

"and be gracious
to you.

"The Lord
turn His face to you

and give you peace."

Amen.

ALL:
Amen.

I will see you all
again soon.

Thank you.

- Excuse me,

you are followers
of the Teacher, yes?

- Yes, Shalom.

- Yes,
may I speak with Him?

- He's about to leave,
we all are;

it's been
a very long day.

- I want
to give you this.

- I-I don't,
uh...

Thank you;
what for?

- It's an offering.

There was
no collection taken?

- He didn't
ask for that.

This isn't a way
to get to speak to Him.

- Is that Shahtoosh?

- Yes,
from Nepal.

[Tamar gasps]

And you're donating this
to His ministry?

- Yes.

And there
will be more.

- And who are you?

- My name is Joanna.

And I bring greetings
for Jesus from someone, so...

if I could only
just have a moment--

- From who?

- I come
from Machaerus.

I've spoken with John...
the Baptizer.

- Andrew!

Come over here.

She says she's spoken
with John in Machaerus.

- When?
How?

You've seen him?

- Yes, my husband
works in Herod's court,

so I've had the opportunity
to speak with John

since he's been--well,
since he's been brought in.

I-I was intrigued
by his words, and I--

- You've spoken
with him?

Is he okay--
what did he say?

- You're Andrew?

- Yes.

- Yes...
he mentioned you.

You were a follower
of his?

- Yes,
is he hurt?

- No--
well, um, yes;

it's not a great place
for him to be.

He's upset
some important people.

But he wanted
you especially, Andrew,

to know that he is
in good spirits.

- Can I see him?

- This is Jesus.

- Yes, of course.

I saw your teaching.

- Hello, Joanna.

So, you've spoken
to My cousin?

- Yes.

Yes, John has been
telling me

that I need to see
Your teachings.

When word reached Machaerus
about this gathering,

they didn't
think much of it,

but John thought it would be
a good opportunity.

- Rabbi,
I'd like to visit John.

- Just a moment,
Andrew.

So, what will you
report back to him?

- That I want to support
Your ministry.

This has been a--
[softly crying]

this has been
a healing day for me...

as John said
it would be.

Thank you.

- I'm glad
to hear it.

- And John wanted me
to tell You

that he is eager for You
to come to Herod at some point.

He believes that--

that there is uncertainty
in the court about him,

and he also says that

they are not
taking You seriously yet.

He thinks that--that
a strong visit from You soon

could resolve
both issues.

But he also wanted
to make it clear

that he is trusting
Your timing on "soon."

[Jesus chuckles]

- Of course.

Thank you
for sharing that.

Now...
so My student here

doesn't grind his teeth
into dust,

is John even able to receive
visitors at the moment?

- Are You coming
to Machaerus?

- No, I will be
taking some time alone.

But if you were able
to somehow arrange

for Andrew here
to safely visit John;

I don't know
if that's possible...

- Um...

I suppose that I could
make some arrangements.

My men are taking me
back to Machaerus

in my carriage
shortly.

You can join me.

[claps]

- Thank you...
thank you.

Thank you, Rabbi.

- You need to rest
and to trust, Andrew.

But perhaps after spending
some time with John

you'll be able
to do both.

[Jesus chuckles]

- Shalom.

- Shalom,
be safe.

Shalom.

- What's, uh,
going on?

Everything good?

- We'll leave
in a few moments, hmm?

- Who is she?

- I'm going
to see John.

She's from
Machaerus.

- Oh,
what do you mean?

This isn't--

- Rabbi already said
it was all right.

She works in Herod's court,
don't worry about me.

You have to
go home--

- I can't
let you go alone--

- I'm going
to be fine.

- Andrew--

- Listen...
I'm going to be fine.

But...
thank you.

- For what?

- For watching out
for me.

For everyone.

Always have.

You're a great leader,
and I don't say it enough so...

thank you.

- Say "Shalom" to John
for me.

- Really?

- Eh,
I mean it.

He started all this,
introducing you to Jesus,

and you introduced me
to Him.

I thank John...

and I thank you.

I love you.

Shalom, man.

- I love you.

Shalom.

[pats back]

THOMAS:
Ramah.

- So, uh, did you--
did you talk to John?

- Yes,
I'll be taken care of.

And you're all set
with Mary?

- Yes.

- Good.

I'll stop by tomorrow
to check in.

- I figured
you would.

- Is after second meal
a good time?

- Hmm...

I'll have to see
what my plans are.

- Oh, then
I can come later.

- Thomas,
I'm joking.

[both laughing]

It was a joke.

[laughing]

- Yes...
of course.

Well...

shalom.

- Shalom.

Uh, Thomas?

- Yes?

- Um...

- Yes?

- Maybe come by
after first meal?

- Of course.

I just didn't want
to bother you,

it's been quite a lot of time
together lately.

- I know.

I just--I hope
this time away

doesn't become too much...
time away.

- It won't.

- Good.

Shalom.

- Shalom.

[laughing]

- Hello?

- Hello.

- Are you...

Who are you?

- I'm Jairus.

- Nice to meet you.

I'm Yussif.

Uh, is Niv here?

- Niv was
transferred.

I'm the new synagogue
administrator.

- I had no idea.

- That he
was leaving?

- That I'm so unimportant
no one would mention it.

- [laughs]

I would not trouble myself,
Rabbi Yussif.

Take it from someone who
transferred many times over,

the goodbyes
are hardest.

It seems Niv kept this
information to himself

to avoid having
to say them.

- You've been
around then?

- Kadesh, Joppa,
Hebron, and now...

- Galilee.

Welcome, Jairus.

Do you have family?

- A wife
and daughter.

And, Adonai willing,
another child on the way.

- Ah,
congratulations.

- Thank you,
rabbi.

And what about
your family?

I hope to
meet them soon.

- My family
is in Jerusalem.

- Ah,
that must be hard.

I'm sorry.

- I was uncertain

how long I would
remain in Capernaum.

Moving around so much
is difficult as well.

Your daughter.

How old is she?

- Twelve.

It is difficult for her,
making friends.

My wife, too,
but...

being isolated
brings us closer.

And I assure you,

it will not prevent me
from doing my duty.

- Of course not.

Jairus,
I need ink.

- You and everyone.

- We're out?

- Dry,
I'm afraid.

I put in a request
with the Elders.

Until then,

you may want to check
with some of your less...

prolific brethren.

- If I did, I'd have
to explain what I'm writing.

I'll use
my personal stores.

Thank you.

- I enjoy a challenge,
Rabbi Yussif.

- That will
serve you well here.

- It's one of the reasons
I've been moved around.

I have a propensity for
bringing order amidst chaos.

Perhaps I'm being
dramatic.

Upheaval?

Unusual events?

Word has spread of unusual
things happening in Capernaum.

- That's
an apt description.

- Are you, perhaps,
writing of unusual things?

- The most.

Yesterday, I saw a sermon
by a rogue preacher.

I haven't slept since.

He was brilliant.

- Intriguing.

Is it to be
a historical record?

A letter?

Are you filing
charges--

- No!

I... I don't know
what I'm writing yet

or who
I will send it to.

I am certain I must document
what I am seeing.

- Rabbi Yussif...

I have a safe
that I use.

I call it
"the cellar."

It's where documents go...
to cool off.

You can't imagine
how many times

our brothers
write something

they wish they had not sent
in the morning.

Other documents
remain for months.

It's locked
and, um...

entirely
confidential.

Does this sound
like a place

you might want to store
your document?

- I bet the goodbyes
were very hard

for those you've
served with, Jairus.

Thank you.

[door squeaks open]

- It's good
to be home.

[door closes shut]

Even better
to be here.

- Eema went back
to live with my brothers.

- Yeah, I know.

Most of the time, I hate
the thought of you here

alone all day
and night.

But in this moment...

[knock on door]

[knocking continues]

[door squeaks open]

- Hi.

- Oh, hello.

- What are you doing here,
Nathanael?

- Simon,
you're looking at me

like you wanna smash my face
with a stone.

- Oh, don't be silly.

Please, come.

- I know, I know,
I'm sorry.

I know you probably
want to be alone.

But, uh,
I'm just not from here,

and I heard you
might have space.

- Who told you that?

- Of course we do,
Nathanael.

- Andrew has a flat
in the east quarter.

I can tell you
directions.

- I thought
about that.

It's just that--

- Just what?

- It's a one-bedroom.

Philip and Judas
are staying there,

and they're practically
on top of each other.

- It'll work out.

- Would you be opposed
to sleeping on the roof?

- I...
well, I--

I heard you had
a spare room

that your mom
used to stay in, Eden.

- Who's telling you
these things?

- Have you eaten,
Nathanael?

- I'm starving!

- Please.

Thank you.
[claps]

[claps]
Oh, man.

Yes.

Seriously, though,
[chomps apple]

don't even mind me.

Act like
I'm not even here.

[loudly chomping]

You know, maybe I will
go up to the roof.

- Yeah, it's easy
to get to.

There's a ladder,
right outside.

- Simon,

come on,

I'm not oblivious.

I'll put a pillow
over my ears.

[Eden gasps]

- Nathanael,

you can say whatever you want
when we're on the road,

but in my house,

try having a thought
you don't say, hmm?

Or you'll be sleeping
in the fish hold.

- Sorry.

[whispering] You still
want me to go up to the roof.

- Yes!

- Okay.

Yep.

- Oh, good.
[tap-tap]

This is the place.

Nice.

- Mm-hmm.

- Slow down.

- What?

You're not eager
to get home?

- Yes, and you're not
the one carrying the axe

and the tent poles

and the hammer
and these bowls--

- Shut up.

Let's switch.

- Okay.

There.

[Big James grunts]

- Why are you
in such a rush, anyway?

- C'mon.

You don't know?

- What?

- John, I wake up
every morning

and after every nap

having dreamt
about just one thing.

- You're going
to tell me what, I'll bet.

- Eema's
cinnamon cakes.

- That sounds
about right.

- And you don't?

- Um, well,
there are the teachings.

And the sermon
we just heard.

Have you not seen the miracles
He's been performing?

Paralytics getting up
and walking.

- I know.

It makes me
so hungry.

- You're sick.

- C'mon.

We're so close.

- You guys
going to eat?

- Thomas!

- Everybody's hungry.

Glad to see
you found the place.

- Wasn't easy.

Your directions are...
what's the word?

Bad.

- There was a plan?

- Well, I figured a guy
from the plains of Sharon--

a stranger
from a strange place--

could do worse
than Abba's.

What?

He can sleep in that room
where Eema dries the herbs.

- Sounds extravagant.

- That's fine.

Glad to have you,
Thomas.

- Didn't I tell you?

I guess my mind's been on
all this history making.

While he's been
thinking about cakes.

- What kind of cakes?

- Forget it.

ZEBEDEE: Three disciples
of Jesus of Nazareth

coming to stay
under my roof!

A triple blessing!

- Abba knew?

- Yeah, Thomas and I
talked to him; come on.

- Of all the fathers
in Capernaum,

I must be
the most envied!

- Hello, Abba.

- Hello.

- Abba.

[grunts with hug]

- I'd introduce you
to Thomas

but it seems
you've already met.

- Thomas!

Thomas!

[chuckling]

Ohhh...
[pats back]

How 'bout that sermon?

- I have
some questions.

- [mimics him]
"I have some questions."

[laughs]

I thought
you would.

- I tend
to overthink things.

- Mm.

- Where's Eema?

- She ran to market.

Realized at the last minute
she was out of cinnamon.

- I've got something
very important

I want to talk
to you all about.

- Ohhh... I think
I know what it is!

- I definitely
think I know.

- Mm,
Mm-hmm-mm-mm.

- I don't know what
you're talking about?

[Zebedee laughing]

Abba.

- I have nothing
in the cupboards.

I didn't know
when I'd get back,

so I gave everything
to my friend, Rivka.

Oh.

Yeah.

I know.

- What?

- It's tiny.

- Ah, nooo,
no, no, no.

You'll sleep here,
yes?

And, uh, I will sleep...
along that wall.

And then Tamar,
you can sleep there?

- It's intimate.

- It'll stay warm.

[laughing]

- Yes,
it will be warm.

Mary...

may I bring
some light in here?

- Please!

- Okay.

- Well, we spent
our last shekel.

Let's hope this goes
a long way.

- What is it?

- Matthew?

- Oh.

Uh, hello.

- What are you
doing here?

- I'm not sure who to...
or where to, um... go.

- You have a home

in one of the most
beautiful neighbor--

- I gave it away.

- To whom?

- My parents.

- Have you stopped by
their house?

- My father
will not allow it.

- But you're his son.

- He--
he says I'm not.

- I'm sorry.

- Thank you
for listening.

I think perhaps
I'll make camp.

I know how
to do it now.

- Are you okay,
Matthew?

- I feel confused.

Thank you for asking,
Ramah.

- You're doing
really good, Matthew.

Everything's new,

it's okay
to make a mistake.

- Thank you, Mary.

Have a good night.

- He's wonderful.

He's a good man.

It's not much,
but we'll manage.

- Is it too early
to use this shawl?

- Yes.

We should not
have taken it.

- She got to you.

- She was
presumptuous.

- Sometimes rich people
can be like that.

- Believe me,
I know,

I used to work in
the wedding business.

- Who do you think
she was?

Remember how she
struggled with her words?

- I don't think
she wanted anyone

to know
she was there.

That's what I got
from her.

- Yes!

She was deceptive.

- But curious.

- I think she was
being cautious but genuine.

She had on
silver earrings.

- Or it was all talk

and we'll never
see her again,

which is fine
with me.

We're giving away
Shahtoosh?

That's the most expensive
textile in the world.

- She was trying
to help us, Ramah.

- Why don't we just eat,
hmm?

PALACE GUARD: I can't say that
I blame you for coming back.

We don't get interesting ones
down here often.

Every day it is
something new with him.

Either demanding we pass
a message to Herod

or preaching about
a new kingdom.

His insults
are very creative.

- It will be
embarrassing to me

if you tell anyone
about my visit

or my friend
being with me.

But to you and your family
it will be devastating.

Do you understand?

- You were
never here.

- John?

John...
are you all right?

- What are you
doing here?

Who allowed this?

- No one.

We should be quick.

- I'll be fine.

Think of it
this way...

I've never gotten to sleep
in a palace before.

[both chuckle]

But what are you
doing here?

- I've been so worried,
praying for you every day.

- You've got
a new rabbi now.

THE Rabbi.

Focus on Him.

And hopefully I'll be able
to as well soon enough.

She came to me in distress
after Herod arrested me.

Not for my sake.

She was angry I didn't call out
her husband's adultery

when I accused Herod.

[laughing]

But she is proving
an apt pupil.

Did you talk to Him?

- Yes, I told Him
everything you told me.

- Thank you,
but that's not as important.

What do you
think of Him?

- I don't know
how to describe it.

- Like you are
grateful for food

and didn't realize
you'd been starving.

- That works.
[chuckles]

- Anything new?

- So much!

- Tell me
what He said.

- Nothing
that made sense.

Everything
backwards--

the poor, the grieving,
the meek, all elevated.

- Blessed.

- Yes.

And other things reversed--
love your enemies.

Who can love
their enemy?

- He can.

What else?

- Bizarre imagery.

Something about
pearls before pigs,

and logs in eyes--

- Yes.

- Salt, m*rder, rain,
God feeding the birds,

houses on sand...

- He's almost as strange
as you, John.

- Oh, I wish
I were so strange.

How many people
were there?

- Thousands.

- Thousands.

Wonderful,
wonderful!

What else?

- John...
what can we do for you?

How--how
can I help?

- Help?

You're helping me
by what you're sharing.

- You know
what I mean.

- Come here.

Don't be afraid.

The prophecies
of Isaiah...

He has been sent to proclaim
liberty to the captives,

and what...?

- The opening of the prison
to those who are bound.

- Yes!

This prison is nothing
now that He is here!

Do you believe that?

- I--I'm trying.

- Andrew...

in all that He said to
those thousands of people,

there was something
just for you...

for what you
are going through.

There always is.

What was it?

Something that stuck
with you.

- Don't be anxious.

Can--can you add a single hour
to your life

by being anxious?

- That sounds like Him.

What else?

- But seek first--

seek first
the kingdom of God

and His
righteousness.

- Even more like Him.

So if you want
to help me--

Andrew?

If you want to help me...
listen to Him.

Go home...

and do what He says.

That's what I want.

Got it?

Now, let Joanna get you out
of here so you don't join me.

[birdsong]

[pats bag]

[papers rustling]

[door closes]

[market sounds]

JUDAS: Working hard,
I see.

[Dvorah laughs]

- Why do I have
a bad feeling about this?

- That's what you said when
I joined the mining company.

- And now
you're leaving it.

- My life can't
just be about money.

- It's never not
about money with you.

- I know you think

you would have spent
Abba's inheritance

better than I have.

- I would have.

That house you invested in
has not gone up in value.

- That's why
I'm here.

I need you to hold
something for me.

Well, two things,
actually...

[market sounds]

It's the deed
to my house.

- What?

- I don't know
when I'll be back--

or if
I'll be back.

- Everyone's been talking
about your rabbi, you know?

- What are they saying?

- Too many things
to be true.

I heard hundreds
of people gathered.

- Thousands.

I didn't know it
at the time but,

the day before,

I helped His disciples
secure the site.

God worked through me,
Dvorah.

That's--that's
never happened before.

- How will you
make money?

It's the only work
you've ever known.

- I will help with
what little they do have.

Help find benefactors,
supporters.

Most ministries and rabbis
are inefficient,

and this is
the most important ministry

of our people's
history.

To spread
His message,

and to build something
to match the Romans,

they'll need
my skills.

- Judas,
this is dangerous.

- Yes.

- Rome doesn't like
popular preachers

with big followings.

They put them away.

- I think
He's the Messiah.

I'm almost sure
of it.

- Many have claimed
to be the Messiah.

You know what happens
to them?

- Always the worst-case
scenario with you.

You know, their followers
aren't... always k*lled.

[sighs]

If He is the Anointed One,
sister,

then He will not
be k*lled.

He will defeat the Romans
and set us all free.

- I don't want
to lose you, Judas.

You're all I have left
in this world.

- Oh, you have
your husband,

your beautiful
daughters.

- No, I mean...

You know
what I mean.

You're the last
of our name.

If something
were to happen to you...

the line of Iscariot
will be broken

and our family name
will be forgotten.

- Whatever happens,

I know that Adonai
has set me apart

for a reason
I do not yet know.

I--I have to
follow Him.

- Abba and Eema
loved you so much.

Make us proud.

- I will.

And, um...

will you keep Eema's mint plant
alive for me, please?

It requires
a gentle touch,

which I do not
possess.

- Now, get out of here...

and go follow
your rabbi.

I really hope
you're right about this.

- I am.

You'll see!

- You know, bearing a son
would've been a lot easier

than upending
your whole life

to go on
this dangerous journey.

- Shalom shalom,
Dvorah.

- [crying]
Shalom shalom, brother.

- Rabbi Yussif.

YUSSIF:
Jairus.

- You wish to place something
in "the cellar?"

- To cool off.

It's worth a try.

- Very well.

You and I are the only souls
who will ever know about this.

Rabbi?

It is unsealed.

- Yes, it is,
Jairus.

[overlapping footsteps]

[heavy sigh]

[light knocking]

[sighs]

[door creaks open]

- Shalom.

- Shalom, uh...

I won't take
much time.

- It's fine.

Do you need
anything?

- I just--
I have to--

I--I want to
say something.

Um, in Rabbi's
sermon,

He said to reconcile
with someone first

before worshiping,
and I--I--

I need to apologize
to you.

- You don't owe me--

- Yes,
yes, I do.

I said awful things to you
because I was scared,

which Rabbi
also talked about.

He talked about
many things.

I've a lot
to work on--

- Me too.

- --actually.

- But I said
awful things to you,

because
I was scared,

and you didn't
deserve it.

And I'm--I'm--I'm--
I'm very sorry.

So...
that's all.

- Heh.

I'm sorry,
I'm not sure what to say.

I think this is
the first time

anyone has ever
said "sorry" to me.

- Mary...

You don't deserve that,
either.

Things are better now,
huh?

- Yes.

A lot.

Thank you for this.

- Shalom.

- Shalom.

[door creaks shut]

[dog barks]

- Oh, um,
hmm...

[door opens & dog whines]

Alphaeus.

- Son.

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[man vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[man vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[man vocalizing]

♪ ♪


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.



