03x03 - Physician, Heal Yourself

[♪ musical swirl ♪]

[rocks clattering]

[♪ soft music throughout ♪]

♪ ♪

YOUNG MARY:
Good job, Jesus!

LAZARUS' MOTHER:
Yes, Lazarus!

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Oh, child... ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪♪

[overlapping footsteps]

[sheep bleating]

[rhythmic knocking]

MOTHER MARY:
I'm coming!

If it's You, come in,
but I'm coming!

[knocks again]

[door creaks open]

Oh,
it is You!

L'shana tovah!

- L'shana tovah,
Eema.

Oh!

[both chuckling]

- Why didn't You
just come in?

You know You can
just come in?

How was
Your journey?

You look tired.

Are You hungry?
Yes?

Let's sit and eat.

- Okay.

- Come on,
come in.

[kiss on doorway]

You can just set
your bag down there.

- Okay.

- We'll eat first
and then You can go to bed;

I'm sure
You're exhausted.

- Mm.

- The challah
is hot and ready;

Your timing
is perfect.

- Mm,
smells delicious.

- Did You have
a good journey?

- Yes,
it was fine.

I saw that the brown dog wasn't
at the city gate when I got in;

did something
happen to him?

- He died...

several months ago.

- That would
explain it.

You know,
I can't remember a time

when I walked
through that gate

in the last ten years

and he wasn't
there...

just being ignored
by everyone who walked by.

[Jesus praying to Himself]

- Sit, sit.

[both sigh]

It's not
perfectly round.

I've never been able
to do it perfect,

but the raisins
cooked in nicely.

- Ah, raisins,
Eema.

- I know, I know,

but it's for
a sweet new year...

so hush.

TOGETHER:
Blessed are You

Lord our God,

King of the Universe,

who has kept us alive
and sustained us

and brought us to
this holiday season.

- All right.

Mm.

Mm.

- So,
no James and Jude?

- Well... they felt it was best
to celebrate in Sepphoris

while You were here...

just to avoid
conflict.

- I understand.

- I think it's
just hard on them,

especially with
so many people here

excited
to see You.

Everyone's been hearing about
what You've been doing,

the signs and wonders,

and... You know how the boys
feel about all that.

- I understand.

- But we'll have
a lovely time.

- Mm.

- How's the bread?

- It's delicious,
even with the raisins.

[laughing]

- So, tell me about
how Your students are doing.

Each one of them.

I need to know
what to pray for.

- Oh, Eema, I don't know
that I'll have time

to tell you about
every single one of them;

I'm ready
to collapse.

- Fine, just tell me
about Your five favorites.

- Eema, I don't have favorites;
you know that.

- Of course You do,
admit it.

- Why don't you tell me
your favorites of the group--

- The women.

- Yeah,
that didn't take long.

- Mm, and Zee,
because he'll protect You.

- Really?
Hmm.

Anyone else?

- I'm teasing.

I love them all.

Is anyone
troubling You?

What about Andrew,
how's he doing?

He wasn't doing well
when I was with them.

- He's fine.

Our boy, John,
set him straight.

Actually, they're all
doing quite well right now,

I've sent them out

on missionary journeys
to our people,

doing signs and wonders
of their own.

Well,
not of their own--

- I know
what You mean.

And the women?

- The women
are in Capernaum,

helping James
and John's father

start a new
olive oil business

to help support
the ministry.

- Ahhh.

- Mm-hmm.

- And Thomas and Ramah?

- What about them?

[chuckles]

How did you know there
was interest in betrothal?

- I have eyes,
haven't I?

I saw they were in love
at the wedding.

I thought we should just
have their ceremony

after Asher and Sarah's.

Will he ask for
her father's blessing?

- Yes.

- Ah.

Do You bless it?

- I would love to
see them betrothed;

they both are
faithful followers.

- So... are you ready
for tomorrow?

- Pshew.

- So many have told me
they can't wait to see You.

Oh, and guess
who is in town?

- I couldn't
tell you.

- Lazarus
and the sisters.

- What?
No.

- They got in today,

they figured it was
a good opportunity to see You.

- Ahhh,
that's wonderful.

[chuckles]

Oh, Laz--I haven't seen Laz
in a while.

- Mm-hmm.

- Oh,
that will be fun.

[chuckles]

Well...

I think I'm going to
go to bed, Eema.

- Of course.

- Eema...

- Yes?

- I'm going to need the box
while I'm here.

Do you know
where it is?

- Now?

- Mm-hmm.

- Huh.

Are You sure this is
your last time here before--

- I believe
My time is coming.

- Ahhh, I don't know
that I'm ready.

- I know
how you feel,

but you also know
that I must do...

TOGETHER:
the will of Him Who sent me.

- Does it have to be
so soon?

Are You sure?

- If not now...

- Hmm.

[♪ soft strings ♪]

I miss Your Father the most
during celebrations.

- Me too.

- He had so much fun.

Tomorrow is going
to be a fun day.

- Yes...
yes, it is.

- The box is near Your bed;
You'll see it.

- Thank you.

[Eema clears throat]

- I'll clean up;
You go to bed.

- I can help you.

- No, no, no,
I--I've got it.

You go to bed,
I'll be fine.

- Eema.

[light kiss]

[sighs and sniffs]
- I'll be fine.

- Laylah tov.

[sighs]

[sighs]

[sheep bleat]

Cain, Abel.

[sheep bleat]

[groans]
Oh, boy.

[sighs]

[sighs]

[soft chuckle]

Still feels small.

[box scrapes table]

[♪ soft music ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

Soon.

[♪ shofars and drums ♪]

[♪ crowd singing ♪]

[crowd conversations]

[kids laughing]

[stones splashing]

[crowd cheering]

[shofar blows]

[wagon rattles]

MOTHER MARY:
This looks perfect!

Look at this!

- Wow.

You know, I don't know
the last time

I celebrated the New Year
in Nazareth.

- Four years...

- But who's
keeping track, hmm?

[laughing]

- We might be poor,
but we celebrate better

than those other towns
You've been in.

- I don't deny it.

It's good
to be home.

- Mary!

Jesus!

- Dinah!!

I didn't know
you'd be here!

- We decided to make the trip
just yesterday.

- Well, correction.

Dinah decided
to make the trip;

I had little choice
in the matter.

- Oh, hush.

- Well,
it is true.

Jesus, I didn't know
You'd be here.

I apologize.

- For what?

- You'll get questions
about the wedding, no doubt.

- I've told some people
about what happened,

although a few
had already heard.

- Yes,
don't be surprised

if some people
run out of wine on purpose

just to see
what You will do.

- Well...

that was for
a special occasion.

- I know, I know.

Oh, it's so good
to see you both.

- Oh, I was wondering
when this was coming.

[laughing]

[light kisses]

- Oh, shalom.

- Shalom, Lazarus.
[chuckling]

Mary, Martha,
good to see you.

It's been a while.

- Shalom.

-Shalom.

- Mary, come with me,
we've got a spot.

Rafi, take Jesus' food;
we'll set it up there.

[inaudible conversation]

- I guess I am
taking Your food.

- All right, then,
thank you so much.

I'll come by
later.

- It's good
to see you again.

- You too, Rafi.

- Aha!!

So many things
to catch up on!

You're here
for how long?

- Ah, not long.

I came by to grab
a couple of things;

I wanted
to see Eema,

celebrate
a bit,

go to the service.

- Well,
now that we are here,

maybe You can stay
a little longer.

We are staying
in a great place;

You should stop by.

- Maybe.

- So...
You look good!

- Thank you.

- Seems like the rabbi thing
is starting to treat you well.

Still no home
though, huh?

- I have all
that I need.

- Years ago I tried
to get Him to join me

in the business
in Bethany.

Turned me down,

just wanted
to be a craftsman--

well, first wanted
to be a craftsman,

and then a rabbi.

- Well, he didn't need Me,
obviously, so...

- But we would have
had so much fun!

- True.

- I'll give You credit,
though,

You never wavered,

You did what
You set out to do,

and being a rabbi
like You are

with the lack of schooling
You got... amazing.

- So, are You really
doing miracles?

- Mary,
be delicate.

- I'm just asking.

- Forgive Mary
for being...

well,
for being Mary.

But...
as is her custom,

she puts into words
what we are only thinking.

Is what we're hearing
true?

- Well, that depends on what
you're hearing and from whom.

- I am hearing that
You've turned water to wine,

healed hundreds
in places like Syria,

and that You recently
preached to thousands

some sermon people
are still talking about.

And that you made
a bunch of friends in Samaria--

which we'll need
to talk about--

while making
a bunch of enemies

in places that
we actually like.

And not
unimportant enemies.

Am I missing
anything?

- Not bad.

- Come on, I know everyone
and hear everything,

You know that.

- So it's true?

- You're the greatest rabbi
who ever lived?

- Well, there's still
a lot of work to be done.

- Ha-ha-ha!

Still with
the humility.

I love it.

- We're also hearing
that some are saying,

and You
are not denying--

- Mary, not now.

- I do want to ask,

and we can do this privately,
if You like--

Rabbi Benjamin,
Leah!

Shalom!

- Shalom, Lazarus.

Girls.

Jesus,
welcome home!

- Leah,
good to see you.

Rabbi Benjamin,
how long has it been?

- Jesus.

- Well, many here
are very excited

that You're visiting,
Jesus.

So much being said.

- I was just
telling Him that.

Everyone is talking about
Nazareth's big success story...

and it's not me
anymore!

[laughter]

What are you hearing,
Leah?

- Oh, all kinds
of rumors.

That You're becoming
quite a popular rabbi,

with some having seen You
speak to thousands,

and even perform
signs and wonders.

Gossip, of course,
comes with it,

and even Hannah
told me

that You claimed
to be the Messiah,

and I said,
"Not the humble Jesus I know,"

but here, Jesus,

have some apples and honey;
You're skin and bones.

- Apples and honey,
of course.

To a sweet New Year.

- May these days
before Tishrei

be as sweet
as this food.

- For you as well.

- Rabbi Benjamin,

with all the excitement
about Jesus being here,

wouldn't He be the perfect man
to read the Scripture

and share the instruction
in tonight's service?

- That's a great idea!

You were telling me
you hadn't prepared yet for--

- Well, I was planning
this afternoon to--

- He is a Rabbi now.

- Yes,
I'm aware.

- I know He was not
your favorite student,

and I know He did not
go to Beth Midrash,

and that He teaches as a rabbi
in His own way, and--

- All right, Lazarus,
he understands.

- We celebrate the creation
of the world today,

and that's fine,

but tonight and Rosh Hashanah
will be more serious.

- Yes, you've never loved
the fun stuff beforehand.

But as much as we love
your interpretations, Rabbi,

it would be lovely
if everyone got to see

how much Jesus has learned
from your teaching.

It might encourage the children
to pursue a similar path, yes?

Jesus,
what do You think?

- I would be happy to,

as long as Rabbi Benjamin
is comfortable.

- I suppose there could
be value in hearing

what Adonai has been revealing
in the Scriptures to You.

- Then it's settled!

So wise and humble of you,
Rabbi Benjamin,

everyone will
appreciate it.

Jesus,

do you think you can come up
with something impactful

on short notice?

- We'll see.

- Can't wait.

All right, I need to get
this Man into a Trigon game

and get Him
some more food.

We'll see you
tonight.

ALL:
Shalom.

- You are something;
you know that?

- I know.

- You're still causing
trouble with Rabbi,

and I'm still
getting blamed.

- Ah, you love seeing him
annoyed as much as I do.

- Eh.

- Come on,
let's get in a quick game.

JESUS:
Do we have to?

LAZARUS:
Yes, we have to!

- Ha!
[thud]

- Ooh.

- Look alive, look alive,
look alive.

- Again.

Oh,
bad idea.

- Shalom,
my friends.

I hate to break up
the fun,

but it's time for me
to start embarrassing you.

And for us all
to embarrass Jesus.

- Not necessary.

- We're just about
to finish up,

John has four, Rafi has three
and I have two,

and John's
playing awful;

he's going to lose
any moment.

- All right, Aaron,
because we're both in

from out of town
and you can play this whenever,

allow Jesus and me
to finish the game, hmm?

I'll play for Rafi,
Jesus will play for you,

and I'll still win.

- Thank you, friend.

- Uh-huh.

- Have you gotten
any better since last time?

- I don't know.

- You don't know?

- I haven't played
since last time.

- What?

- Come on,
this won't take long.

I'll win fast--

uh, I'll win
for Rafi--

and we'll be
on our way.

Give the guest
a moment.

- Remember,
catch with Your left.

and at least
make the throws fast.

John just needs to drop one
and it's over.

- No promises.

All right,
here we go.

You ready?

♪ ♪

All right,
easy.

[laughs]
- That didn't take long.

- That's three.

- Uh, okay, that's fine,
it just...

was there
and then it--

Anyway, [clears throat]
just shaking the dust off;

it's just been
a few years.

- It shows.

- We're fine.

I'm fine.

You're fine.

Everyone's fine,
okay?

♪ ♪

Nice catch,
huh?

♪ ♪

- No reach;
that's a no reach.

RAFI:
That's four.

That's it,
four.

- I apologize,
Aaron,

perhaps we should have
refused Laz's offer.

- It's fine,
just... focus.

Maybe we can get John
on this one

and get second place?

Lazarus has clearly
been practicing.

- I don't need it.

Let's go.

Three, four, four,
here we play.

♪ ♪

- Nice catch!

Finally!

♪ ♪

LAZARUS/RAFI:
Ho-ho! Yes!

That is the game!

RAFI:
Thank you!

- That is the game!

Very good!

- Sorry, Aaron,
not My strength.

- Clearly,
but all of you,

do not be late
for tonight,

Jesus is handling
the reading and interpretations.

That's His strength.

This was just to
humble Him beforehand.

- Wasn't necessary,
though.

- Ha!
It was!

[laughing]

RAFI:
I look forward to it.

Shalom, friends.

TOGETHER:
Shalom.

- You're home, sir.

[laughing]

- That's low.

[chuckles]

Ah, well,
thanks for that.

I trust it was
very satisfying for you.

- Mm,
a little.

- Hmm,
a little.

- We've still got
a lot to talk about,

and I expect some
answers from You

about everything that has
been going on by tonight.

- Well, be careful
what you ask for.

And we go this way.

[crickets chirping]

[birdsong]

[crowd conversations]

- Blessed are You,
Lord our God,

King of the Universe,

who has kept us alive and
sustained us for another year.

Who bestows kindness,
restores, and redeems.

Praise to You,
Adonai our God,

Sovereign
over creation,

Who has chosen us
from all the peoples.

May Your blessings be upon
all who seek You earnestly.

Bring joy to Your land
and gladness to Your city.

In Your mercy,

bestow on us
a prosperous year,

a bountiful harvest,

and the promised arrival
of Meshiach,

Your Anointed One,
the Son of David.

CONGREGATION
Amen.

[♪ shofar plays ♪]

- Thank you for that call
to repentance and rest.

And now, for the reading
and interpretation,

we have with us
Jesus bar Joseph.

He was one of my students
in Torah class,

and we've heard
reports--

some of them
very positive--

[laughter]

of His rabbinic
journeys.

Jesus.

- Thank you,
Rabbi Benjamin.

Ah, please.

You know,
it's not easy to share

in front of Nazareth's
pre-eminent Rabbi but...

I will do My best.

And I'm certain that
if I miss a word or two,

one of you at least
will speak up, huh?

[laughter and agreement]

I wonder
who it will be.

A reading...

from the scroll
of the prophet Isaiah.

"The spirit of the Lord God
is upon me,

"because the Lord
has anointed me

"to bring good news
to the poor;

"He has sent me
to heal the brokenhearted;

"to proclaim liberty
to the captives;

"and recovery of sight
to the blind;

"to the opening of the prison
for those who are bound;

to proclaim the year
of the Lord's favor."

[soft whispers]

The fulfillment
of this Scripture...

as you have heard it...
is today.

This is the year
of the Lord's favor.

This is a year
of jubilee;

a year the poor,

the brokenhearted,

the c*ptive
and the blind

are offered
redemption.

Here...
now.

- We are with You;
keep going.

Not bad for
a carpenter's son, yes?

[laughter]

- I mean,
especially Joseph...

may he rest
in peace.

- Jesus, please explain why
You stopped the reading

before Isaiah spoke of the day
of vengeance of our God.

Especially during a time
of such oppression.

- The day of vengeance
is in the future.

I'm not here
for vengeance;

I'm here
for salvation.

[♪ tense music ♪]

- You're here
for salvation?

What are You
saying?

- You know
what I am saying.

And this year
of jubilee,

this year
of the Lord's favor,

is not about release
from financial debts;

I'm here to provide release
from spiritual debt.

- We're the chosen seed
of Abraham,

we don't have
spiritual debt!

- Jesus.

- Yes, Aaron.

- We've been hearing
about the signs and wonders...

and now this?

Are You claiming
to be more than a rabbi?

More than even
the Baptizer?

- No doubt one of you
will quote Me the proverb,

"Physician,
heal yourself."

"The things we've heard
You did in Capernaum...

"and in Syria...

do here in Your hometown..."
yes?

- Why not?

- I get it.

It's always easier
to accept hard truth,

and even greatness,
from strangers

than from those
you know well;

especially those you knew
as awkward teenagers or...

even as adults,

as some of you saw
earlier today.

Laz here would make
a more believable prophet.

[chuckling]

But this brings up
an important truth...

no prophet is acceptable
in his hometown.

[soft murmuring]

- Be careful with
what You call Yourself!

- This should
be easy to prove.

Dinah and Rafi,
you say you saw it, yes?

- Yes, yes,
we saw it but...

He did not
claim this.

- A true prophet
from Adonai

would not deny his own people
signs and wonders.

- Listen carefully.

When great famine hit Israel
during the days of Elijah--

three years
and six months--

there were many widows,
yes?

And we know how the Father
cares about His chosen people,

especially widows.

But Elijah was sent
to none of them...

not a one.

Instead he was sent
to a widow in Sidon,

in Zarephath.

A Gentile woman.

Martha,
what happened?

- She gave up her last flour
and oil for one more cake

and gave it
to Elijah.

- Why would
she do that?

- Elijah told her
the Lord said to do so.

- Yes, the Lord said
that He would make it

so that her flour and oil
would never run out.

And she believed.

A pagan Gentile
in a pagan land.

And she was hungry enough
to know she needed God

and to obey Him;

and so God sent Elijah
to multiply her food...

forever.

What about
Elisha and Naaman?

There were many lepers
in Israel during this time,

but none of them
were cleansed...

except Naaman...

only a Gentile,
a Syrian soldier,

an enemy
of the Lord's people.

But he was so desperate
he trusted Elisha,

and his leprosy
was cleansed.

You may be the chosen seed
of Abraham,

you may be the people
of the covenants,

but that will not
bring you My salvation.

[♪ tense music ♪]

If you cannot accept

that you are spiritually poor
and c*ptive,

in the same way that a
Gentile woman and a Syrian leper

recognized their need--

If you do not
realize

that you need
a year of the Lord's favor...

then I cannot
save you!

[♪ tense music continues ♪]

- Who do You think
You are?!

- This is what
Hannah talked about.

That He even called Himself
the Messiah!

- Are You claiming
to be the Messiah

or are You merely claiming to
speak for the Lord as a prophet?

[♪ tense music ♪]

- Yes.

- You are
a false prophet!!

[gasps]

- Whoa, that is
quite a thing to say.

Jesus,
maybe we should leave.

- Lazarus,
you're His friend,

you cannot be
involved.

You know what
the law of Moses says!

- We are all
His friends, Aaron;

we cannot say things
like this.

- Jesus,
stand up at once!

LAZARUS:
Rabbi, please.

Rafi, come with
Jesus and me,

we will leave,

and you all can
continue the service.

- Rabbi Benjamin
has asserted false prophecy,

and I cannot argue it.

- You said
you saw the miracle!

- He's saying
only He can save us.

- He didn't
use those words.

- It's what
I meant.

- Jesus,
you're not helping!

- He's saying we are
not The Holy One's chosen.

- Now,
He didn't say that!

- In Words,
a book of Moses...

"But the prophet who presumes
to speak a word in my name

"that I have not
commanded him to speak...

that same prophet
shall die."

- Rabbi Benjamin,
I beg of you... not this!

- Lazarus.

It's fine.

- Jesus,
they're going to--

[♪ impending music ♪]

- Yes?

- Jesus...

if You do not
renounce Your words,

we will have no choice but
to follow the Law of Moses.

- I am
the Law of Moses.

[gasps]

[♪ Music swells ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[crowd conversations]

RABBI BENJAMIN:
Jesus bar Joseph,

because You have repeatedly
prophesied falsely

and have offered no denial
or renouncement

of Your
blasphemous claims,

there is no need to escalate
this to the authorities.

Do You stand by
all that You said?

- I think
I was pretty clear.

- Your father,
may he rest in peace,

was a righteous man.

Your mother
is a good woman.

We take no pleasure
in this shame

You are bringing
to their name,

nor the grief
this will bring upon Mary.

But as from
the law of Moses,

whose life and words
You have spat upon today...

Your sentence
is death!

♪ ♪

- Rafi...

Aaron...

Rabbi Benjamin.

This isn't
going to happen.

Not today.

♪ ♪

[♪ music swells ♪]

[♪ music ends ♪]

[footsteps]

[shuddered sigh]

[sniffs]

[footsteps]

[fast file scraping]

YOUNG JESUS:
He has sent me to heal

the...
bro... keen...

JOSEPH:
Mm-hmm.

- brokeen...

JOSEPH:
Broken.

Then what?

- Hee--hee are.

JOSEPH:
Sound it out.

All the letters,
huh?

- Hee are teh...
ted.

JOSEPH:
Good.

Now,
say it quickly.

- Hee-art-ed.

- Hearted.

Now, one word,
huh?

- Brokenhearted.

What does that
mean?

- A heart
that is broken...

but, um, not the heart
in your chest.

It is what makes you, um,
happy or sad.

A broken heart means
being sad or hurt...

someone who, um,
needs help.

- Sad or hurt...

someone
who needs help.

JOSEPH
Keep going...

- To... pro... claim...
proclaim... liberty.

- Ah, good.

Here, quick,
hold this for me, huh?

- I can help?

- Yes, come.

All right.

All right, um...

You need to learn
how to do this well, huh?

The men in our family
can strike a nail through

in one swing,
eh, maybe two, huh?

I will allow You two swings
on Your first try.

Now, You won't always
be doing carpentry like me...

You will be
a craftsman,

of stone
and other materials,

not just wood.

- Why, Abba?

- Because there is not
much wood around here;

this is a place
of rock and stone.

[chuckling] I picked
the wrong business, eh?

Heh, heh.

All right,

you don't use your whole
big arm to swing, huh?

Just this part,
the bottom half.

You just swing
from the elbow.

This way you have
more control, see?

Now, I will hold
the nail steady,

so You don't
hurt yourself,

and You can swing.

- What if I hurt
your hand?

- Oh, You have great talent
like your abba.

You will be fine.

Go ahead.

[tap]
OHHHH!!!!

Oh! Ooh!

[grunts]

[laughing]

Oh, I'm just joking,
huh?

Look what You did there...
halfway.

Very good.

Hey, I'm sorry,
huh?

Your goofy abba
could not help it.

[laughing]

That's very good!

Jesus,

I have something very special
to show you, huh?

Go grab that box over there,
in the corner.

Yes,
that one.

Thank You,
my Son.

Listen carefully,
huh?

This is a mule's bit
and bridle.

Now, You have
seen them before,

but this one
is very special.

[♪ soft music ♪]

Thousands of years ago,

when our people were finally
set free from sl*very...

as they were leaving,

one of our ancestors
of the great tribe of Judah

used this
very bit and bridle

to lead his mule laden
with supplies out of Egypt.

Of course,
the mule eventually died,

and everything was lost
to the wilderness.

But this was in his hand
when he escaped,

so he kept it.

The men in our family have
handed this down to each other

for 40 generations

as a remembrance
of our bondage,

but more importantly,
Jesus,

in remembrance of
being led to freedom

into the Promised Land.

It's old,
and it's not beautiful,

but my father
handed it to me to own,

as I am handing it
to You.

We always joked,
"Who knows?

Maybe one of us
will need it one day."

I do not suppose
You will bear a son, so...

maybe it will end its journey
with You.

But I cannot leave this earth
without passing it on.

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

- Thank you,
Abba.

- Ah, you...

Jesus.

I know I am not
Your father

in the same way that
Your friends' fathers are.

We've talked about this,
You understand?

But the privilege,
and the blessing,

of stewarding Your life
here on earth,

for the short time
that I was granted,

it is the greatest honor
and gift I could ever ask for.

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

Come here,
my Son.

I pray that I have done right
by You, Jesus, hmm?

[shuddered breaths, sniffling]

[deep sigh]

MOTHER MARY:
Jesus!

- I'm here,
Eema.

[running footsteps]

[Eema crying]

[Eema sighs]

- Where did they
take You?

I was so scared.

- I said
I would be fine.

It's not
that time yet.

Thank you.

- It's got everything,
plus some food.

- Oh, good.

- Well, that was
interesting.

Didn't want to tell me
before today?

- It wasn't time.

- Are we going to get a chance
to talk about it more

anytime soon?

Great.

Well, let me know.

- Don't worry.

I had to say
what I did today.

I know it was
frightening,

but even they
must hear it.

[sighs]

- I know.

But why
come here?

- I wanted to see it
one last time.

I'm not coming
back here...

obviously.

- Next Rosh Hashanah,
come to Bethany.

- Eema, you should
leave for a bit as well...

until things
calm down.

Tell the boys
you can go to Bethany.

- Martha and Mary
will be so excited.

[softly crying]

- I was remembering
when he gave this to me.

[♪ soft strings ♪]

- I remember.

- There's no
turning back now...

not after today.

- I know.

- What is
the bridle for?

- You'll know
soon enough.

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

- Soon.

- Soon.

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ stirring strings swell ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
