03x04 - Clean, Part 1

[♪ musical swirl ♪]

[rocks clattering]

[♪ soft, stirring strings ♪]

[no audio]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[joyful laughter]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[inaudible speaking]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[inaudible speaking]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[inaudible speaking]

[inaudible speaking]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[inaudible speaking]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ music swells ♪]

[inaudible speaking]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[inaudible speaking]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[inaudible speaking]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[no audio]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ music continues ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[crying]

THOMAS/JOHN: Our Father
Who is in heaven,

hallowed
be Your name.

CONGREGATION: Our Father
Who is in heaven,

hallowed
be Your name.

ANDREW/PHILIP:
Your kingdom come,

Your will be done.

NATHANAEL/THADDEUS:
On earth as it is in heaven.

SIMON/JUDAS: Give us this day
our daily bread.

LITTLE JAMES/BIG JAMES:
Forgive us our trespasses

as we forgive those
who trespass against us.

MATTHEW/ZEE: And lead us not
into temptation,

but deliver us
from evil.

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[inaudible speaking]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[inaudible]

[inaudible]

[inaudible]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[inaudible]

♪ ♪

[inaudible]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[inaudible]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Oh, child... ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪♪

RABBI JOSIAH:
And whoever touches the body

of the one who has
the discharge

shall wash his clothes,
bathe himself in water,

and be unclean
until the evening.

And if the one
who has the discharge

spits on someone
who is clean,

then he shall
wash his clothes,

bathe himself
in water

and be unclean
until the evening.

And then he settled
on which the one

who has the discharge rite
shall be unclean,

and whoever touches anything
that is under him

shall be unclean.

- What's the matter
with you two?

- What?

RABBI JOSIAH:
And whoever carries such things

shall wash his clothes,
bathe himself in water

and be unclean
until the evening.

- Did something happen
on your missions?

Why are you standing
so still?

In synagogue you usually
fidget and shut

when he's thronging on
like this.

- You admonish us
for being quiet in synagogue?

- This isn't exactly
one of Torah's best.

Years from now
no one will claim,

"Oh, yes,
I was there

for the pronouncement
on washing."

- Abba.

- I'm on
to you two...

something's up.

RABBI JOSIAH:
Wash his clothes,

bathe himself
in water,

and be unclean
until the evening.

[crowd conversations]

Where was I?

Oh, yes,
the ritual cleansing.

And whoever touches the body
of the one who has a discharge.

[crowd conversations]

RABBI YUSSIF:
People, please.

Rabbi Josiah is reading
from Leviticus.

- The cistern.

- This cistern
is closed.

- What's the meaning
of this?

- It's sludge!
Look!

[gags]

- A tunnel feeding the cistern
has ruptured

and is overflowing
a sewage line

contaminating
the water.

- Probably from the weight
of these filthy people.

- They are pilgrims.

We did not
invite them,

but they are here,
and they are peaceful.

What is to be
done now?

- If you were
enterprising people,

you would drag
every able body

from your worship hall
right now

and set to work
fixing this problem.

- We are
worshiping.

- Which is what
I thought you'd say.

So Rome will fix
your cistern

and make your lives
possible.

- When?

- Well, your honorable
Praetor Quintus is adamant

the work be done
this instant,

but...
in his benevolence,

he has overlooked
the supply chain,

and so it will
be fixed

when the materials
arrive from Rome.

- That could be weeks.

- Unless...

- We get the materials
ourselves.

- The synagogue
seems well financed.

- Looks can be
deceiving.

What do we need?

[knocking on door]

- E-e-enter.

[papers rustle]

Rabbi Yussif,
please.

- Hello, Jairus.

It's been too long.

Is everything
all right?

- I have been meaning
to find you for some time,

but seeing as you
come to me,

I presume you have
pressing business.

How might I
assist you?

- I do appreciate
your sense of order, Jairus.

- I have one job,
Rabbi Yussif.

- I need parchment
and a courier.

- To where will the courier
be traveling?

- Jerusalem.

- The temple?

- No, the cistern
is broken.

- Nobody told me.

Clean water is essential
to our purification ritual.

- I'm requisitioning
building materials

to have it
repaired.

- But we'll have to
go through the budget.

- It's taken care of.

Paid in full.

- Dare I ask?

- I've taken care
of it.

My family is in construction
in Jerusalem.

We own the stone quarry
and brick manufacturing.

- Impressive.

- Discretion,
Jairus.

- On my life.

- What did you want
to see me about?

- I received a request
for a detailed report

on the contents of the sermon
of Jesus of Nazareth

on the Korazim Plateau.

- By who?

- Rabbi Shmuel.

And stamped
by Rabbi Shammai himself.

Far be it for me
to tell you

how to conduct
your affairs, Rabbi.

- Mm-hmm.

- They cannot know
about your letter.

- You read it.

- Not at first.

Stared at the old parchment
for almost a month.

But you have written
about His sermon

and your encounters with Him
and His followers.

Jesus is a very
new thing, Rabbi.

Do you stand behind
every word?

- Jairus, please.

- I do not mean to impeach
your trustworthiness.

I am asking.

- I know what
you're asking.

I was emotional,
I was reeling,

I drew conclusions
about Jesus of Nazareth

that couldn't
possibly--

- Couldn't they?

[♪ soft music ♪]

Now I feel it,
too, Rabbi.

I am reeling,
Rabbi.

I have spent the past month
comparing this sermon to Torah,

rereading
the old prophecies.

I even tracked down
Rabbi Shmuel's own account

of the healing
of the paralytic man.

Sometimes knowing more
is not helpful.

RABBI YUSSIF:
I am sorry if my report has

sown doubt.

- Jesus of Nazareth
is not the problem.

I see light,
Rabbi.

Torah spells out
the coming of this Man.

It's dogma
and tradition

that have misunderstood
the picture from Scripture

of a military figure.

If everything
you're saying is true,

do you know
what this means?

- Jairus,
be careful.

- It is more than just
that He is a great new rabbi.

You leaders
and the Sanhedrin members

might be
so close to it

that you cannot see
the bigger view.

He could be...

No, no.

I would sooner be unborn
than return to ignorance

of the contents
of your letters.

- You understand
the consequences

of what
you are saying?

- Of course I do.

It is why
I feel this way.

And I mean
what I say.

I think
you meant it too.

And Nicodemus.

- Now you understand
my dilemma.

- I love our people,

but I am leery of what
the Order may do.

Rabbi Shmuel
made this request

on behalf of the majority
leader of the Sanhedrin.

It will not be received
with understanding.

- What do you think
I should do?

- I have already been
too bold...

but if you're
asking,

I would send
as diluted a version

as you possibly can.

- We agree then?

The Sanhedrin need know
nothing about the sermon.

Knowing that the account
I submit is inaccurate

makes you complicit.

- Discretion,
please.

- On my life.

[wind blowing]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[water splashing]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

- Where's
your husband?!

- Ohh!!
Oh, what are you doing?!

[laughing]

- Were you ready
to fight?

- Oh,
you can't do that!

Don't do that again;
I can barely breathe!

Ahhh!

You're lucky
I missed you,

I'd be angry
you scared me like that.

- I missed you,
love.

- Hmm.

I'm sorry it's still
a bit of a mess in here.

I wasn't expecting you
till tonight.

- Mmm, I don't care,
you know that.

I definitely missed this,
I'm starving.

- Oh, did you not
eat enough?

- We were fine,

we just traveled way too much
for the amount of food we got.

- So... notice
anything different?

- About what?

The house.

- There's something
different?

- The table.

It's normally there,

but I moved it here
to create a little more room,

and I moved some things around
so more light would come in,

and Eema gave me some of
her cloths to put on that wall.

- Those weren't there
before?

- What do you mean?

Of course not.

I got them
while you were gone.

- Hmm.

- You didn't notice
anything different?

You live
in this house.

- I'm sorry,
I'm just exhausted.

It looks great.

- Should you take a nap today
while I go to market?

- I was hoping to,
actually.

If I can get
a little sleep now,

I'll be refreshed for dinner
and then...

early bedtime?
Hmm?

- A nap now?

- Is now not good?

- Um...
no, it's fine.

I was just--
I was hoping we could, um...

Never mind, it's fine.
I'll go now.

SIMON: Yeah, you know, with
the boys all coming back in,

Judas is inviting them
to come by tomorrow.

Is there more bread
than this?

- Tomorrow?

You just got back.

- We just wanted
to connect a bit,

talk about the journey,
and they wanted to meet here,

which is annoying,

but it's been a while since
we've seen each other, so.

- Yes, I know.

SIMON: This is just
the best spot to gather.

So, is there more?

- More what?

- More bread,
for when they come.

- I can make some.

I will stop by the well
for more water.

- Thank you.

You make the best bread;
they'll appreciate it.

- Yeah,
have a nice nap.

- Thank you,
wow.

I love you.

So glad to be home!

- Love you.

[footsteps]

- Excuse me.

- Yes.

- Do you have any clothes
you need washed?

- I don't.

Well, I do.

I'm going to fetch water
to do them myself.

- I see.

- But thank you.

- I charge
a fair price,

and the garments
come back like new.

- I believe they would.

Would you like
to join me?

- I may not be
good company.

- It's an interesting
thing to say.

I think most people don't
know that about themselves.

- They're probably
just as strange as me, I mean--

- Or just as lovely.

I've never
seen you before.

- I'm not from here.

- Where are you from?

- Caesarea Philippi.

Are you going to the well
outside of town

with those buckets?

- I heard the cistern
is broken.

- You don't want
to go to that well.

Yesterday I saw
lines of people

waiting for hours
in the hot sun.

- What choice
do we have?

- I know of a secret spring
just north of town.

- Would you
take me to it?

- I just said
I would.

Come on.

- You're very good
at this.

- Thank you,
Eema.

- Smells good,
doesn't it?

Mm-hmm.

[door squeaks open]

NILI:
Abba!

- Mm.

A question
of prophecy came up.

I need one
of my scrolls.

NILI:
Eema, Abba's home.

- I can see that.

What a lovely surprise.

- I can only
stay a moment.

- One of the rabbis needs you
to bail them out, hmm?

Nili, come.

Let's keep stirring;
we can't let it burn.

Perfect.

Thank you.

One more, it can be rounded,
sweetheart.

Don't be like that, Nili;
do it however you want.

- My tummy hurts.

- Nili, Nili!

Nili,
what is it?

Jairus!

Jairus!

- What happened?

- I don't know,
we were just cooking.

Nili was measuring cumin,
and then she fell.

- No, no, no,
it's okay.

Lift her up.
Come, come.

We can do it.

Upstairs,
come on.

Let's get you
in bed.

MICHAL:
It's all right.

It's all right.

JAIRUS:
Stay here, love.

- I will.

- I'll get the doctor.

- Go, go, go.

My love,
it's all right.

- Thank you
for doing this.

I don't know
your name.

- I'm Eden.

- Veronica.

- It was very kind
of you to tell me.

Most people would've
kept it a secret.

- I don't like secrets.

- Everybody has secrets.

- If people knew something
that could help me,

I wouldn't want them
to withhold it,

so why would I do
the same?

- Yes, sure.

- Not that it's done me
any good.

- What do you mean?

- Never mind.

Here we are.

You'll want--

- I know how
to do it.

I didn't mean
to snap at you.

There is a lot going on
in my life.

- I understand.

- No, I was wrong.

I'm sorry.

How does your husband
like Capernaum?

- I'm not married.

You're not?

But you've traveled
so far.

[to herself]
What is that?

TAMAR:
Oh, my!

Oh!

I am grateful
to Matthew

for letting us
live here but...

if this house
has confirmed one thing,

it's that...
having money

is not the same
as having taste.

- What do you mean?

- The curve of the leg
of this table

and the foot style,

it was brief trend
five years ago.

- Maybe he bought it
five years ago.

- And this...

the aggressive
orange pattern

raises the heart rate.

It's no wonder Matthew
is so anxious all the time.

- He's not anxious
because of a rug.

What's your point?

- I don't think we'll be able
to auction these off.

- Auction?

- The ministry
needs financing, Mary.

We can't rely
on alms.

- We did mention
the possibility

of selling
your jewelry.

- I told you
it's not just jewelry,

it's my family story.

Each piece belonged
to one of my ancestors.

I carry their lives with me,
wearing them on my body.

- I'm sorry, I am trying
to be sensitive, Tamar,

but honestly,

that sounds a little pagan...
or like animism,

which you may
want to shed

now that you're
in this group.

- It is not animism;
it's honor.

You don't know
what I've been through.

- You don't know
what I've been through.

- I've heard rumors.

- Ah.

- I'm sorry.

- I do have a past.

As for the question
of money,

we should just
leave it to Judas,

the keeper
of the purse.

[knocking on door]

- Please let it
be Jesus.

- Zebedee, Shalom.

- Shalom, Shalom.

- Do you know,
I realized the other day

that I never quite apologized
for the, um... the roof.

- Oh, your faith
is beautiful.

[laughing]

Don't give it
another thought.

Do you ladies
have a moment?

- Of course.

-Yes.

- I've pressed
a batch of olive oil.

Will you give me
your honest opinions?

Tell me
what you taste in it.

- Hmm.

- Hmm?
Hmm.

What kind of a "hmm"
was that?

- I need a minute
to think of the right word.

- Hmm.

Tamar?

What?

[Tamar spits it out]

What is it?
What's wrong?

- Ugh.

Oh...
I--

[clears throat]

I am the daughter
of one of the seven princes

of my people.

The olive tree
originated in Ethiopia

and spread to
the other nations.

- You're certain that
it originated in Ethiopia?

- I've traveled to Egypt,
Nubia, Anatolia,

and I've sampled
all of their finest oils.

And--

- And what
do you think?

- It's rancid.

- Tamar.

- No, it's okay;
I need everyone to be honest.

You only do me harm
by flattery.

[sighs]

Mary, I know I can count on you
to tell me the truth.

- Mold.

Something between
black pepper and vinegar.

- But let's take
a look at it.

Mary, please,
hand me that.

It's expertly
racked and purged.

See the clarity?

Not a trace
of solid matter.

- Thank you.

But what can be done
about the taste?

- Depends on
the olives.

Were they lighter green
or darker green?

- Dark, because
they're the cheapest

and they produce
more oil.

- But less flavor.

The lighter the olives,
the less oil they produce

but more flavor.

The lighter,
the brighter.

Did you buy a press?

- I leased one,

along with the donkey
that pulls the crushing stone.

- And the olives?

- I buy them wholesale
from the owner of a grove.

- A reputable grove?

- I think so.

I mean, I think--

- Could you arrange
an introduction with the owner?

- Of the grove
or the press?

- Both.

- Tamar, what
are you doing?

- The woman, Joanna,
from Herod's court

that got Andrew into the prison
to see John the Baptist.

She gave a large donation
to the ministry

and urged us to find a way
to multiply her gift

if we could.

- This would go
to my business?

- But you just said
she specified

it's for the ministry.

- Yes, but the profit
from the oil business

is how we will help
multiply her gift.

- We'll have to speak
with Judas first,

he'll have to be
on board.

- Well,
where is he?

- Andrew's flat,
I think.

- What are we
waiting for?

Come on,
let's go

- Here.

- Okay.
[sighs]

- And so then
just in an instant,

just like that,

her eyes turn
from gray to hazel.

Thomas and I had never
seen anything like it.

JUDAS: Well, it sounds like
neither had she.

- The parents
burst into tears.

- It's a shame
the first thing

she had to see
with the new eyes was you.

[laughter]

- Traumatizing.

SIMON:
You need any help with that?

- No.

- Has something
been bothering you lately?

- Nothing,
no.

PHILIP: Well, turns out Andrew
is quite the bold preacher.

- I think we made
a difference.

- You were
in the Decapolis?

With Gentiles?

PHILIP: Gentiles
and Hellenistic Jews

were around,
yes,

and they hated us just as much
as they hate each other.

- I think the Gentiles
thought we were helping

to start a w*r.

- Hey, Simon,
are you proud of your brother?

[pouring liquid]

- Simon.

- Sorry, what?

- I said you must
be proud of Andrew.

- Of course I am.

- THADDEUS:
Big James.

How was
the Plain of Sharon?

NATHANAEL: Yeah, you've
been quiet all morning.

LITTLE JAMES:
Zee and Matthew, you too.

BIG JAMES:
It was fine.

We preached to the things
that Jesus gave us power to do.

- You sound
as enthusiastic

as a Sadducee
with a toothache.

- He didn't give us power,
though... right?

- He worked
through us.

- I just don't think
it was a good idea.

- What?

- It just raised
more fuss.

It's going to create headache,
more crowds, more scrutiny.

JUDAS: What, do you want
to slow Him down?

JOHN:
He's just mad at me.

He's annoyed because
I've gotten close to Thomas

and because Jesus
once called me "beloved."

- I felt that way
before we left.

I don't care
about that now!

Tell them what you said to me
before, tell them.

- Tell them yourself.

You're the one
still struggling with it.

- By using us
as vessels,

Jesus gave us power...
but no understanding.

- I also struggle
to understand.

- We healed,
but we still felt overwhelmed.

- But did He require
understanding?

It seemed to be more about
what we were doing, right?

- Easy for you
to say.

You and Thaddeus were
going door to door in Cana.

He's known
in Cana.

They probably invited you
into their homes.

NATHANAEL: I'll go on
harder missions.

JUDAS:
Nathanael is right.

He never said anything
about understanding.

This was temporary
anyway.

LITTLE JAMES:
When I was preaching,

I-I could feel Him
giving me the words.

[all agree]

- I said things that
I don't comprehend or live by.

I felt like
a fraud.

ANDREW: I felt the same way,
but it didn't bother me.

- I felt powerful,
like I could do anything.

PHILIP: Yes,
I did too, John,

but isn't that
dangerous?

If that is the feeling
we hold onto.

- Why?

- Because He
is the Messiah.

- None of us
is the Messiah.

EDEN: Instead of
arguing about it,

why don't you just
ask Jesus about it

when He gets back?

- That's
a very good idea.

- Who can say
when that will be?

ALL:
Soon.

[laughing]

PHILIP:
A most imprecise word.

JOHN: So some of it
was confusing, James.

Can you live with that
until we get understanding?

- You're the one
that brought it up to me.

SIMON:
Of understanding or not,

you're all
just hungry,

and I think that's
the real problem.

- Food is not
the solution to this.

SIMON: Yeah,
you have a better one?

My wife has practically
given up her home for us.

- I meant no disrespect,
Eden.

- Everyone, please...

thank you.

I took
no disrespect.

- Okay, I have to sit
next to Little James.

- Why?

- Well, I have to find out what
happened to Big James out there

that turned him
into... this.

LITTLE JAMES:
It was nothing,

we--we were just met
with some resistance.

[♪ soft music ♪]

- Eden?

Are you all right?

- I'm fine.

[background conversation]

[whispering]
- What's going on?

You two okay?

Simon?

ZEBEDEE:
She's seaworthy.

You may inspect her
from every angle.

The holds are fast,
sails are true.

- I don't have
to inspect it

to know your word
is bond, Zebedee.

- So...
we have a deal?

- I don't understand,

you're the best fisherman
in town.

- I met a Man
who is no man.

- Ah, yes.

Yes, Jesus,
the Nazarene.

- Mm-hmm.

- He wants you to give up
your business now?

- What am I
working for?

I have food to eat,
I own my home,

my wife is true.

- We own nothing
under Rome.

- I own nothing
above Rome.

That's what
I want to work for.

I will make
the best anointing oil

this side of Sinai.

- I believe you.
I believe you.

Let's get this
over with, huh?

[water burbling]

[scrubbing noises]

[Eden panting]

- Shalom, Veronica.

- Your house
isn't empty anymore.

- What?

- Those look like
men's tunics.

- Ah, yes.

My husband and his friends
returned home.

- The perfect place.

- I assure you,

there's nothing perfect
about my place...

or about me.

- I meant, Eden,
the garden.

- Ah.

What brought you here
from Caesarea Philippi?

- I came to hear
the Preacher on the mount.

- Oh,
of course.

- Surely
you were there?

- Yes,
yes I was.

- What, you didn't like
what you heard?

- I did.

It's just... a lot
has happened since then.

It must have been a hard journey
with your, um--

- What?

- It's just,
I don't know, your limp.

VERONICA:
My limbs are fine,

I've been...

- How long
have you been--

- Twelve years.

- Do you mean days?

- I mean years.

- Twelve?!

How is that possible?

- It's a rare disease.

- How have you
stayed alive?

- It just makes me
weak.

- This is why
you're unmarried.

- I'm un-everything.

I haven't seen
my parents in years.

They won't allow me
in the house.

You better keep
your distance.

If you touch any of it,
you'll be ritually unclean

and unable to touch
your husband for seven days.

- Oh, I assure you,

I haven't been
touching my husband.

- There's no cure
for my ailment.

I spent all my money
on doctors,

and they only
made it worse.

No hope there.

- So what do you do
with no hope?

- I haven't lost
all hope.

There's no cure
by doctors,

but there might be something
I haven't done yet.

[scrubbing noises]

- Two buckets.

You'll find a shoulder yoke
in the storage closet

with the
purification jars.

We're on Geshur Street.

Rabbi,
uh, please.

Rabbi Yussif,
come in.

- There is emergency
at home.

I am afraid I have
to leave again soon.

- I'm sorry;
can I help in any way?

- The situation
with the water is urgent.

The doctor believes
my daughter is ill

because of the water,

and not to speak
indelicately,

but every woman who has
her time of the month

will have a problem.

We cannot wait for
the system to be repaired

to have clean water.

- What can I do?

- Have every
able-bodied student

collect water from
rural wells, springs.

Travel as far
as necessary.

We need water.

- Done.

Is there
anything else?

- I'm frightened.

- Of course you are.

- Rabbi... am I being
punished by God

for believing
in this Nazarene?

- If you are...
I have done this to you.

Forgive me,
Jairus.

It's not too late
to stop investigating.

Just take it all back.

- Taking it back would
not change what I believe.

[♪ soft music ♪]

I must go now.

[crowd conversations]

[sighs]

♪ ♪

- Honored judges,

I hereby propose a new decree
that would extend

to the four corners
of the land of Israel

and to any Diaspora
living beyond our borders.

A scourge of false prophecy
has bedeviled our people

and is diluting
our faith...

belittling
our credibility,

and besmirching
our reputation.

This... must... stop!

If any preacher espouses
teaching not supported

by known
and respected rabbis

and especially anyone
invoking the messianic title,

"Son of Man"
from the prophet Daniel,

shall be reported
immediately

to the regional
Sanhedrin judges.

If one is
unrepentant,

the high priest alone
will adjudicate.

To all those
in favor...

[applause]

- Praise Adonai.

So, what now?

- What now?

Listen to
the applause.

We won the day.

Great work.

- Work?

It hasn't been
work yet.

- Can we detain Him?

I'd hope this was
the final step

to recognizing Jesus of Nazareth
as dangerous.

- This speech
is the victory.

[scoffs]

- This is all
political?

- Not all.

Now there is
an edict.

- What good is
an edict?

- It's almost
as good as a law.

- But we can't
do anything?

- We can wait.

- Wait?!

- If this Jesus is as much
of a threat as you say,

we will hear about it
eventually.

[crowd conversations]

[♪ soft music ♪]

♪ ♪

[footsteps]

[knocking]

MAN: Faster than
I expected.

- As promised,
thorough and swift.

Ah.

- Unclean!

You deceitful woman!

- I'm sorry;
you don't understand.

It's not--

- Now I'm unclean
until sundown.

- I'm sure that will be
very difficult for you, sir.

- Get out!

You are not to be
in the street or among us.

Shame!

Sarah, I'll be back
at evening.

I must wash myself
in the sea.

[crying]

- I can tell something's
bothering you,

but you're not, you know,
it's not that time.

- Please, don't talk to me
about things like that, Simon.

- What can I talk
to you about?

Look, I know I make
a lot of mistakes,

so if it's my fault,
I will apologize,

but I have to know
what I've done first.

- Maybe it's what
you haven't done, Simon.

I'm going to go
for a walk.

- There,
that's a start.

What haven't I done?

I'll do it
three times over.

- I don't want to be the one
to have to tell you.

If you know me--

[knocking on door]

- Good evening.

[light kiss]

- Evening.

- Just evening?

Not good?

- Uh, You might
say that.

- Have you all
eaten dinner?

What can I get You
to drink?

PILGRIM 1:
He's in here.

I saw Him
go in that house.

[crowd commotion]

- Bolt it!

[loud knocking]

ZEE:
Please, you must go.

This is a home,
go.

Have respect
for His privacy, please.

[crowd yelling]

SIMON: So this is what
it's gonna be like now?

- Simon!

JESUS:
Like what?

SIMON:
I'm sorry, Master.

It's just upsetting
that after a long journey

I come home,
and my house is not my home,

it's a meeting place
and a forum.

- A house cannot have
many functions?

ANDREW:
Brother!

- Let him go.

Simon has a few things
he has to work out himself.

[Eden crying]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[footsteps]

- What are
you looking at?

- Sorry.

Never seen you
without a sword.

- I am armed,
and I still hold authority.

- I wasn't
questioning.

- The only time
I see you anymore

is on the heels of that
exasperating Preacher.

- Yeah, well,
at the moment

I'm finding it a little
exasperating too.

- You're in good company
for once.

- No,
I didn't mean it.

I'm very tired.

GAIUS:
Well... then,

good evening.

- This broken cistern,
it's a problem.

Now long walks to the well,
and the sea isn't drinkable.

- You are on a roll
tonight.

My boss just told me
the same thing.

- Are you gonna
fix it?

- [scoffs]
Are you?

- I meant
no offense,

but isn't it,
uh--

What do you call it?

--a civic matter?

- Quintus does not
want to pay for it.

- Then I would say
we're at an impasse.

Seems like the theme
of the night.

- What--what theme?

- What are you doing out here
at this hour?

- Am I being
detained?

- You're being
questioned.

- And if I don't answer,
you'll arrest me?

- I have arrested people
for less.

- I was on a walk,
officer.

- Primi.

- I was on a walk,
Primi.

[laughing]

- Mm.

[chuckles]

What does impasse
mean?

- It's like a road
that's blocked.

- Like you're stuck

because you can't undo something
that you already did.

- No, because you don't know
what you can't undo

that you did
in the past.

That was a mouthful.

No, I--I can't drink
from a vessel that's--

- Oh, you...
Jews.

Your rules make your lives
very complicated.

- Us Jews?

- Yeah.

- Well, Jesus
will undo some of that.

He reminds us
what we live for.

- Well, they say
He performs miracles, right?

Or the appearance
of miracles.

Why doesn't He just
miraculously fix this cistern?

- You'd have
to ask Him that.

- How about
you do it for me?

- I'm not inclined to speak
with Him at the moment.

- I can relate
to that.

Not wanting to talk
with the boss.

Quintus is ready
to burn the town down.

If you're back
in Capernaum,

does it mean Jesus
is here too?

- You don't really think
I would tell you, do you?

- You better hope
to your God

that Quintus
doesn't find out.

I know Matthew
is back.

- My other
favorite person.

[Gaius laughs]

- I get that,

but 20 denarii says
you end up liking him.

- Well, I don't gamble
anymore,

and I don't
take advantage of Romans.

- Why do you people
dislike Matthew,

besides
the tax thing?

- Why are you
so interested in us?

- Are you blind?

The city is overrun
with pilgrims

because of
your Teacher.

If I were you,

I would lay low at home
for a while.

- I don't particularly want
to be in my home right now.

- Yeah, but haven't
you just gotten back from--

Well, if you don't want
to be in your house

and you want
to distract Quintus

from looking
for Jesus,

you could fix
this cistern.

- With what?

- The synagogue will be getting
materials within a day.

And you seem like
the sort of man

who needs to be doing
something with his hands.

- That's a lot of work.

- Yeah, well I can,
you know, oversee the labor.

[chuckles]

- You're drunk.

Sir.

[laughs]

- Maybe a little...

but you need
something to do.

Don't think
I didn't notice

in the course
of this conversation,

you've tied about
eight knots.

- Well, if you were
a seafaring military man

you'd know--

- Ah.

[♪ soft music ♪]

How'd you do that?

- My grandfather
was a sailor.

He taught me
all of them.

- All?

- Yeah, all the ones
you just did.

- Prove it.

- I don't know
the names.

I'll tie them

and you can just tell me
what they're called.

- Turn hook.

That's the
double stopper.

That's the
"snake in the hole," wow.

I'm impressed.

GAIUS: Be here
in the morning.

I'll talk with
the synagogue administrator

about the materials.

If this trouble of yours
at home

has anything to do
with the wife,

all I can suggest is

you should get used
to saying five words:

"You are right;
I'm sorry."

♪ ♪

[sets bowl down]

[liquid pouring]

[sighs]

- Jairus, have you
checked on Nili?

JAIRUS:
No, not in a while.

- I'll do it.

[door squeaks open]

[screams]
Jairus!

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

[♪ man vocalizing ♪]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
