03x07 - Ears to Hear

[♪ musical swirl ♪]

[rocks clattering]

JAIRUS: And the king
arose in a wrath

from the
wine-drinking

and went into
the palace garden,

but Haman--

[hissing and pounding table]

--he stayed to beg for his life
from Queen Esther,

for he saw that harm
was determined against him

by the king.

And the king returned
from the palace garden

to the place
where they were drinking wine,

just as Haman--

[hissing and pounding table]

--was falling onto the couch
where Esther was.

And the king said,

"Will he even as*ault the queen
in my presence,

in my own house?!"

- ♪ This was on the 13th day
of the month of Adar, ♪

♪ and on the 14th day
they rested ♪

♪ and made that a day
of feasting and gladness. ♪

[shaking rattles]

♪ Therefore the Jews
of the villages ♪

♪ hold the 14th day
of the month of Adar ♪

♪ [shaking rattles] ♪

♪ as a day for gladness
and feasting, ♪

♪ as a holiday! ♪♪

- L'Chaim!!

ALL:
L'Chaim!!!

[crowd noise,
flutes and rattles]

[rattles shaking]

[rattles shaking]

JAIRUS:
L'Chaim!!

[neighbors repeat]

[rattles and flutes]

Blessed are You,
Lord our God,

Master
of the Universe!

Perform miracles
for our fathers,

in those days
at this time.

To life!

FAMILY:
To life!

[flutes]

- No, no, no, no,
Yaeli!

What are you doing?!

[flutes]

[crash]

[screaming]

[flutes]

♪ ♪

[♪ woman vocalizing ♪]

♪ ♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Oh, child... ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪♪

- You dragging
your feet?

- I'm not.

- Every time I look,

you're a few cubits
farther back than before.

- Yeah, well,
I'm thinking.

And my thoughts
are making my body heavy.

- Can you stop thinking
and walk?

- After what
we just saw?

- All the more reason
to move.

Don't make this
difficult.

- You think the situation among
the Gentiles isn't difficult?

- Of course it is!

Walking doesn't
have to be.

- Ugh!
Ahhh!!

- Or it does.

- Oh, Hades!

Ugh, oh, oh!

[breathing heavy]

Ugh! Ah.

- You're bleeding.

- Oh, thank you!

I know what blood
looks like!

- Oh wow.

- Just go
without me.

I'm slowing you down
anyway.

- Are you suggesting
you'll stay behind and die?

- Maybe.

[breathing heavy]
Ah! Ah!

- We're almost home.

- Ah! Ah!

[bandage rips]

Can you--?

Yeah.

Ah!

[bandage rips]

Ugh! Ugh!

[breathing heavy]
Whoo! Oh!

Ugh!

Ahhhhh!

[breathing heavy]

Perfect...
just perfect!

- What?

- Blood, carnage!

It's a fitting end
to our trip to the Decapolis.

- No one was bleeding.

- Yes, not from their skin,
Andrew,

but the whole place
was torn apart,

just like this foot.

And all because
of our teaching!

- You're the one who's
supposed to be made for this.

- I thought I was;
that's what's so--!

- John caused controversy
all the time.

- Yes, but among the Jews,
Andrew.

We caused
a multinational crisis

on the verge of erupting
into violence,

maybe even w*r!

We might have blood
on our hands!

People might die
because of us!

- Yeah, one thing
at a time, yes?

Hold here--

Blood on our hands;
that's a little much.

- We failed
in our mission.

Messiah gave us His words
and we didn't deliver.

And if that
doesn't upset you...

then maybe it should,
Andrew.

- You'll need
a walking stick.

Oh.
[thud]

[door creaks open]

- Oh, welcome back!

- At least someone's
happy to see us!

- He's a different Philip
right now.

- Well,
for good reason!

- W-w-wait,
what happened?

- What are these?

- Oh, I was making packages
of food for the homeless.

Little James said
it's a Purim tradition.

- Purim!

I'd completely
forgotten.

- How are we talking about
holidays right now?!

- What do you mean?

What happened
at the Decapolis?

- Our teaching--
we made a mess.

- We did not intentionally
create a mess.

We preached the words
of our Rabbi

and some people...
took issue.

Where is
the vinegar?!

- Oh, it's on the bottom table,
to the right.

I rearranged
the bottles.

The way you had them organized
before was very inefficient.

- The Decapolis
is in full-scale meltdown

and you're over here
rearranging cabinets?

- How could he know?

- Why do you need
vinegar?

- To disinfect
the wound.

- Right, so it doesn't spread
through my mortal body

and k*ll me?

- Actually,
yes!

- Oh!
Hades!!

- Uh... you still
haven't told me

what you did
to the Decapolis.

- Not what we did.

- What we said.

- To smooth things over?

- Sometimes people
respond better to stories

than to teaching--

- Oh, a parable!

Oh, good!
Which one?

PHILIP/ANDREW:
The Banquet.

- Ah,
I love a banquet.

- We might as well just
tell him what happened.

- Yes,
I'd love to hear it.

- Thank you,
Philip.

So, Judas...

it comes directly
from Jesus,

so it is perfect;
don't misunderstand.

- Okay.

But what?

- But I think,
perhaps,

Jesus shares it
when He wants a challenge.

- Were you
challenged?

[very fast]
- Oh, yes.

- Challenged, yes;
challenged is fair, yeah.

- So...
so, it goes like this--

One time there
was a rich man

who was throwing
a big party.

- It's this big banquet
he wants everybody to come to.

- So he sent his servant out
to all those invited, saying,

"Everything is ready;
it's time, come."

- Only, the guests
that he's inviting

are making excuses.

The first says,
"I've just bought a field,

"I must go out
and look it over.

Please excuse me."

- And another said, "I've just
bought five yokes of oxen,

"and I must
examine them.

Therefore,
I cannot come."

And another said,
"I've just married a wife,

and therefore
I cannot come."

- Those are perfectly
legitimate reasons.

[exasperated]
- Even our own people heckled.

- Someone in the crowd said
the exact same thing.

- So the servant

reported these things
to the master,

and the master of the house
became very angry.

And he said
to his servant,

"Go to the streets
of the city

and bring back the poor and
crippled and blind and lame."

- So he did,
and they came,

only, there was still room
left over in the banquet.

So he said,

"Go out to the highways
and hedges

"and compel people
to come in,

so that my house
may be filled."

- You said this
to a mixed crowd?

- We did not know the extent
to which the crowd was mixed.

- So, "go out
and find some leftovers"

did not exactly
play well.

- Well,
it should have!

God wants everyone
to come to the party!

- The Master said,
"I want My house filled!"

Everyone is invited!

- Okay... okay,

so, tell me
if I have this right.

The Jews understood you
to mean

that Jesus was calling
for Gentiles,

and the Gentiles thought you
were calling them second class.

And then the conservatives,
who live by Jeremiah,

would've heard you
saying the original guests

who didn't want
to go to the banquet

would miss
the party.

And those better versed
in Isaiah--

"behold,
I am doing a new thing!"

--were probably
emboldened,

except that Gentiles
were there.

- Yeah,
that's about right.

- How did you know that?

- I'm a businessman;

it's my job was to know people,
and I've met all kinds.

- It was demoralizing.

- Maybe you're over-identifying
your role in it.

- Would people
be brawling

in the streets
of the Decapolis, Judas,

if we hadn't gone there
and preached?

- Brawling?!

Boys, it is way too early
for the w*r,

we have to be smarter.

[door squeaks open]

- Chag Purim sameach!

[all sigh]

Or... not.

Come on, [claps] come on,
it's a holiday, not Shiva.

- I think we may have
created a crisis

in the Decapolis.

- So, talk to Jesus
about it.

- I was about
to suggest that.

- What happened
to your foot?

- We are going to go see Jesus
first thing in the morning.

So how often does Philip
get like this?

- About twice a year.

I just keep
my distance.

- I'm sitting
right here.

- Yeah, we know.

MATTHEW:
Mm.

This is
very well-written.

- I will just have to
trust you on that.

- You cannot read?

That must be
very limiting.

- It wasn't my choice--

- You could learn.

You are
very intelligent.

[knocks on door]

Thomas!

- Hello, Matthew.

- Did Ramah return
as well?

- Heyyyy!

How did it go?

- Uhhh,
it's... complicated.

- Where's Ramah?

- Did her dad say "no"
or something?

- I mean,
he didn't say "no--"

Ramah stayed behind
in Tel Dor.

- Oh.

- Well, at least
you're back, huh?

[pats back]

Huh?

- Thomas!

Is Ramah...?

- [sad chuckle]

Ramah stayed behind
to work on Kafni.

He's not
a believer.

- In Jesus?

We knew that.

- In me.
[sad chuckle]

- Ah...
that's disappointing.

Are you
embarrassed?

- Nathanael!

- He didn't
say "no."

He just didn't
say "yes."

Ramah's
working on him.

We're hopeful.

[♪ soft, tender music ♪]

- Wait!

Thomas!

- So, the good news is... unh!
...we got the ash.

[yoke clunks on ground]

The bad news is
the townspeople now think

that the followers of Christ
are up to some scheme.

[chomping apple]

Did I miss
something?

- Thomas is back.

And we were just wondering
how it went at the market.

- We bought more than half
the vendor's supply of sulphur.

People are going to think
we're building weapons,

preparing for w*r.

- Igniting spears isn't
the only use for sulphur.

It can also be used to clean
stains from white linens.

- It can be used
to make incense.

- It can be used
to purify a room

where a sick person
has lain.

- Hmm.

- Is Jesus back?

- Yes,
He's over at our place.

speaking to Abba
about the olive grove.

- We need to speak
with Him right away.

- Wait, why?

- Philip, what happened
to your foot?

- Were you attacked?

- Nearly.

- We have a big problem
at the Decapolis.

- I thought you were sent
to go fix it?

- We need Jesus
to intervene.

- On behalf
of Gentiles?

- Excuse me...
I am sitting right here.

- You're different.

There are hundreds of pilgrims
here in Capernaum,

our own people,

who haven't seen Jesus
for weeks,

living in
squalid conditions

waiting for one opportunity
to hear more of His words,

the words that captured them
on the Mount.

ANDREW: He never
promised them more teaching.

They followed us to Capernaum
of their own accord.

- The Gentiles
are curious now.

This was all foretold
by the prophet Isaiah.

Do we remember?

"Behold, my servant
whom I have chosen,

"my beloved with Whom
my soul is well pleased.

"I will put my Spirit
upon Him,

"and He will proclaim justice
to the Gentiles,

and in His name
the Gentiles will hope!"

- I have been studying
the genealogy of Jesus.

- Sounds exciting.

- Mm-hmm.

And there appear
to be many Gentiles

in His own
ancestry.

Rahab was a prost*tute in
Jericho who was married Salmon,

who fathered Boaz.

- And Boaz married Ruth,
who was a Moabite.

- We could let Jesus
decide for Himself?

- Exactly, that's--

Thank you,
Mary.

- She's right.

- Let's go.

- Well,
I should get to work.

- I'll continue
looking at this.

- Okay.

- It smells nice
over here.

- It's the holy anointing oil
of the first press.

Sad news about
Thomas and Ramah, huh.

- It is.

Matthew, I have something
I wanted to ask you.

- You do?

- Yesterday
I was upstairs,

and I was moving
some things around,

and I came across a box with...
prayer tassels inside?

- W-What are you going
to ask me about them?

- Why were they
hidden away?

- Why is
unimportant?

They were hidden
for a reason.

Did that
occur to you?

- I-I put them back,
of course.

It was an accident,
I told you.

I just wondered--

[hits table, grabs papers]

- I-I'm very glad that you are
staying at my old house,

but I will ask you
to please

not go through
my personal belongings anymore!

- Matthew, wait!

SHMUEL:
"Sent by God,"

those were
his exact words?

JEKAMIAH:
Yes.

- Parentage?

- He claimed to be of the house
and lineage of David.

- No, I mean
his father's house.

Jesus, Son of...
whom?

- Oh, He didn't say.

- Origin?

- What do you mean?

- From whence
he hails!

Jesus of what??

- Oh.

I didn't ask Him.

- You just gave him
the money?

- Yes.

- My sympathy for your loss
is dwindling.

- His preaching
was powerful!

Like nothing
I've heard before.

- Did he perform
any signs or miracles?

- No.

- Was he surrounded
by loyal followers?

- He was alone.

He said He's going
to build an army

outside Beersheeba
in the Negev,

and though I'm clearly
too old to fight,

a 50-shekel donation will help
His troops craft weapons.

- Thank you
for your report.

- You're not going
to open a formal inquiry?

- There are countless
such conmen swindling people

all over Judea,

and Jesus is a common name
in our nation.

If we started an inquiry,
where would we stop?

- But you seemed eager
to accept an audience with me.

- This is not the swindler
I'm looking for.

- Oh, now you
make it sound like

it is my fault
I was defrauded!

- I am sorry.

You're free to go.

♪ ♪

[marketplace sounds]

[cow moos]

- Go!

[woman vocalizing]

[woman vocalizing]

[market conversations]

- I think you will be
very pleased--

- We will make
our decisions.

Look at
the meager chump.

Its neck
is pathetic.

- But the coat--

- You could draw spots
and make it a cow then, yes?

This is no lamb
for sacrifice!

- Yeah, you guys sure
know your stuff.

That back part
is called a "chump?"

Who knew?

- Who are you?

This is a Gentile!

- This is.

- You are not
permitted here--

Are-are you eating?

- Oh, what, this?

Yeah, well, I was going to
but... the smell.

- This is
outrageous!

These are
sacred grounds!

Everything must
remain kosher!

I will have you
brought before Caiaphus.

- Don't do that.

I'm here
on Pilate's business.

I can see
you're upset.

Look, all I wanna know is who
is the authority around here

on trouble-making,
rogue preachers.

Specifically,
in Galilee, anyone?

Anybody talking about
anything unusual?

- Give us one good reason
to tell you.

[cow moos]

[pats chest]

[loudly clears throat to spit]

Yanni!

Ask Rabbi Yanni!

- Rabbi Yanni,
great!

Thank you,
men.

[clicks teeth]
Good things.

Listen, if they don't want it,
I'm starving.

- Take this.

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[indistinct conversation]

- What are you
doing here, Jew?

- I... I was just walking
and I ended up--

- You don't just "end up"
in the Roman Quarter.

How did you
get past the guard?

- I didn't see--

- You're coming
with me.

GAIUS:
Canius...

what's going on?

- This Jew somehow
got past the gate.

- I'll handle it.

I'd like to
interrogate him myself.

- Are you sure?

He's nobody.

- Go to the entrance

and make sure Antius
is posted there.

This never
should've happened.

I want to know
where he was.

Yes, Primi.

[receding footsteps]

- Don't talk,
don't ask questions,

do not make a sound
until we get inside.

[door clinks open, then shut]

- You could've
been arrested.

What possessed you
to cross into our Quarter?

- I'd gone
everywhere else.

This was
the last part of town

I thought could distract me,
you know?

The novelty of it.

- You couldn't drink yourself
into distraction at The Hammer?

LIVIA:
What is this?

- It's nothing to worry about,
Livia.

- But it's not yet
the end of the day, you--

- I needed
a private place

to interrogate this Jew
who was trespassing.

- I mean no harm.

- Are you the doctor?

- The--the what?

- Gaius said there was
a Jewish doctor or something

that might be able--

- Livia,
please furnish this man

with one of my cloaks.

I don't want
any more trouble

while I see him
out of the quarter.

- Do you know
the Jewish Doctor?

Can He help
Ivo?

- Um, Simon,
this is my son, Marius,

and Ivo is our,
um...

- Yeah, yeah,
you mentioned, um...

the son
of your servant.

- He's my best friend.

He's really sick.

- All right, Marius,
that's enough;

please go
to your room.

[receding footsteps]

- [sighs]

Jewishness isn't
contagious, Livia.

- So... he already knows
our whole story.

- Not all of it.

We'll take the back door
into the alley,

and sneak you out
a side entrance.

This way.

[receding footsteps]

♪ ♪

[crickets chirping]

[footsteps]

- Mary?

- Matthew, I'm...
please forgive me.

It was none
of my business.

- You aren't the one
who needs to apologize.

I'm very sorry
for my outburst.

- Your feet--
they're covered in mud.

- Oh, [chuckles]
well, um,

Jesus is always going away
to His lonely places,

and I thought
I would try it.

- Oh.

How was it?

- Eh, I barely stepped out
into the fields

before I found myself
trudging through mud.

I took it as a sign
to come back and apologize.

May I explain?

♪ ♪

[market noise]

- Ah,
just as I planned.

Late in the afternoon
on the sixth day...

no line.

- You arranged for there
to be no line at this time?

- Oh, someone else did,
long time ago.

- Who?

- Never mind.

You've really
never noticed?

You seem like someone
who notices things.

- Thank you.

Hmm... traffic does slow down
late on the sixth day.

- Because everyone is at home
preparing for Shabbat.

- Shouldn't you
be doing that?

- Shouldn't you?

- Are you here to satisfy
your tax requirement?

Why didn't you want there
to be a line?

- Maybe I wanted
all your attention for myself.

Besides,
who wants to wait in a line?

I am Matthew,
son of Hezron,

from the tribe
of Benjamin.

- We only require one name
and one ancestor.

- I know that.

Maybe being from
the tribe of Benjamin

is the last thing
I have to be proud of.

What tribe
are you from?

- I don't discuss
those things.

- He was the favorite
of Jacob's 12 sons.

- I thought Joseph
was the favorite.

- Ahhhh!

You do discuss
these things, huh?

If he wasn't
the favorite,

at least he was
the baby of the family,

and the only
other son

born of Jacob's
true beloved, Rachel.

- Something's
not right.

- Mm,
you might say that.

- Your adjusted income
from last year

is not commensurate
with the amount you owe.

Did you come into
a large sum of money?

- No.

- Your tax liability
is the highest in Capernaum.

I don't even think
it's possible

to have incurred
this much debt,

even in a sudden change
of fortune.

Wait a minute.

What are all these re-assigned
figures and transfers?

- Son...

I do not have many more days
left on this earth.

- I can't believe
what I'm seeing.

- Oh, that...
[breathes deeply]

I bought all the debt
of my children and my family

and put it
under my name.

- I've--I've just
never seen...

It's this... this is such
a staggering achievement

of financial acumen.

I must say
I'm impressed.

- [sighs] I have seen
everything I need to see,

and I am ready
to meet my Maker... again.

- Surely with
your brilliance,

you have also prepared
the way to pay this.

- You know, Benjamin
was not his original name?

Rachel died shortly
after giving birth to him,

and as her soul was departing
she called him Ben-oni.

"Son of my Sorrow."

Later on, Jacob changed it
to Benyamin.

"Son of my Right Hand."

That was kind
of him.

- Do you have land?

Assets?

Savings?

Anything you can sell off to
fulfill this unthinkable sum?

- In thinking back
on it,

I think old Eema Rachel
was correct.

Son of My Sorrow.

- Why would you
do this?

You will be arrested and
placed in a Roman labor camp.

- But they will not be able
to touch my children.

I did all this legally,
mind you.

- I know!

I am astonished,

and it will be
very unpleasant for you--

- Honestly.

How long do you think
I will last in a labor camp?

- You are...
shrewd.

- Oh, to answer
your question...

no,
I have no assets.

I could've kept
what little money I had

and let others
pay their share,

but to what end?

To watch them
struggle

as I have struggled
my entire life as a shepherd?

- I thought human sacrifice
was against our religion.

- Mm...

but symbolic self-sacrifice
is not.

Besides, I will not be the one
running the sword through, huh?

- Though I take
no pleasure in doing this...

I have no choice but to
place you under arrest.

- I understand.

Thank you.

May I gift you?

- Gift?

- A gratuity?

For your wonderful service
and kindness

in listening to me
go on.

- It is not
customary.

- In truth, these are
the most valuable things I own.

- An asset?

- More valuable than gold,
more precious than rubies.

- I may be able to
help you liquidate it!

We could work
together!

A ledger coming up this short
on a balance this big

reflects very poorly
on my performance.

- [sighs]
These are one of a kind.

They date back
to the first Exile,

made with the world's
most exquisite tekhelet.

- Well, there must be
a buyer for it!

If the amount settles the debt,
you will be spared!

- I encourage you
to consider

keeping them for yourself,
my son.

- Please!
We are not relatives!

Don't use
that word.

- No... I have
made up my mind.

I want you
to have them.

You chose
this occupation.

I know you have
no use for these now.

But someday...
you might need them.

- That is
very unlikely.

I will put these on the market
and see what we can do.

- Officer?

I confess.

- [scoffs]

Don't worry,
old man.

Someone will come
to collect you.

- I will look
for a buyer.

- When you know
the true value of these...

no man will be able
to meet their price.

[woman vocalizing]

Shabbat shalom,
young man.

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

MAGDALENE:
More valuable than gold.

- "More precious
than rubies" he said.

I kept them to respect
the genius of that man.

I also kept them as a reminder
of the sins against my people.

- Why?

- I want to understand
things, Mary.

Especially inscrutable things
that unsettle me.

And this was the most
mysterious of them all.

I have
so many regrets.

If I were to get those tassels
appraised and sold,

I would only incur more regret,
and I couldn't bear it.

- It wasn't about the tassels--
they're just a symbol.

That man wanted you
to have his faith.

That was the last thing
he had,

his most valuable thing
in the world.

- And you have it!

That man wanted you
to be Jewish again,

and you are.

It was
his dying wish.

- Why would he want that
for someone like me?

- Because sometimes
God sends a dove.

- A dove?

- [sighs]

I've never
told anyone this before,

but... the day
I met Jesus

was the same day I was
ready to end my life.

- What?

- I was going to leap
from a great height,

when a dove
caught my eye,

and I couldn't resist
following it.

And it led me to the place
where I met Jesus.

That old man
was your dove.

- Huh.
[chuckles]

Our lives have often
been painful, yes?

- Yes.

- So we think life
is full of scarcity

and not abundance.

But then there
are those times when...

out of nowhere,

somehow the world expresses
its longing to be whole.

And suddenly,
God steps in.

And we are pulled
out of our blindness...

and we're invited
into redemption.

I know I was.

I know you were.

- Huh.

I don't know
what to say.

- Maybe don't say anything.
[chuckles]

I know you have
felt unworthy.

Matthew...

I know you've
felt unworthy,

but it's time...

to add a new accessory
to your clothes.

[stifled crying]

Or rather,
an old one.

[both laugh]

Shalom, shalom,
Matthew.

- Shalom, shalom,
Mary.

[crying]
Yes.

[shuddered breaths]

- Put your hood up.

[footsteps]

- [whispering] The next time
you need a change of scenery,

try a new food.

Teach yourself
discus throwing.

- [laughing]
Discus? Really?

You know, it seems like you
might be the one

who needs
a distraction.

- Listen.

I'm going out of my way
to help you.

- I'm a fisherman.

I can tell when a ship
has run aground.

How long has it been
like this?

- I don't know what
you're talking about.

- Yes, you do.

That boy--

- It's none
of your business.

- Your wife asked
if I was the Jewish Doctor

you told her about;
what?

You told her
about Jesus?

[footsteps]

- [sighs]

I mean, the boy's been sick
for almost a month,

and he's getting worse
every day.

- None of your doctors
can help?

- You saw the color
of his skin.

They think less of him
because he's a servant.

- Well... it's honorable
you kept him on

when his mother died.

- He's not
just a servant.

- Your son said
they were best friends.

It's like--it's like
having a brother; I understand.

- They are.

Half-brothers.

Whoo.

- Does she know?

- Well, we don't--
we don't talk about it.

Yeah, for Roman men,
it is a more common thing.

- It's common
for lots of men,

it's just--it's more accepted
in your culture.

- Just spare me
the sermon, okay?

- I'm not judging.

[overlapping footsteps]

- I did not feel guilty
about it at the time,

but lately,
I do regret my actions.

And now he's sick
and I, uh...

can no longer pretend
that he's not my son.

And neither
can she.

- You know,

silence between
a husband and wife...

it's poison, right?

The longer
you don't say something,

the worse it gets.

Trust me.

- I do not.

- You trust me
enough.

- Just stick to your side
of the street, Simon.

- Fine.

- Shalom, Shalom,
Gaius.

- Why do you say it
twice?

- Well,
once means peace.

Twice means
perfect peace.

Complete wholeness.

- Well,
that'll be the day.

- Yeah.

♪ ♪

THADDEUS:
I think it's a great idea!

Especially to have them on
before Rabbi arrives.

- Yes, yes, just tell me
how to tie them.

- It would be faster
if I just do it for you.

- Oh, I--I don't like
to be touched,

thank you.

- No problem.

So, uh, first,
you have to pull your, uh...

it's easiest if you take
your outer tunic off first.

- Off?

- Yeah, I mean...

you have your tallit katan on
underneath, right?

That's where
you attach them.

- Could you please
turn around.

- Uh, [chuckles]
sure thing.

- Why do we wear these,
anyway?

- God commanded it
in the Law of Moses.

- But what do tassels
have to do with Torah?

- The Hebrew letters
that spell the word

are the numerical value
of 600,

plus there are 13 knots
and threads used

to make the tassels.

- And there are


- See?
You got it.



When we wear them on the
four corners of our garments

it's like--

- It's like being surrounded
by God's Word all day.

[claps] You're practically
a rabbi already!

Oh,
sorry, sorry.

Okay, so on the bottom right
corner of the tallit,

there should
be a hole there.

- Oh, yes,
I see it.

THADDEUS: Okay, you take
three short strings,

and one long string,

- The blue one?

- Yes, the blue one
is longest.

- Okay.

[door squeaks open]

- He's here!

- Nathanael!

We will be there
in a moment!

[chuckling]

- Thaddeus,
what are you looking at?

- I promise,
we'll be in shortly.

[door clicks shut]

- Ugh!

- You okay?

- Just--you know,
he's just so rude sometimes.

[chuckling]

- Aha.

And what was your strategy
to clarify it?

- Well, we, uh,
we told, um...

- We tried to--uh,
to tell one of your parables.

- Parables,
good!

That's what
I would've done.

- Which parable?

- The-- [clears throat]
The Banquet.

- You know, the one where
the guests give excuses

not to come,

and so everyone else
gets invited.

- You chose
The Banquet??

- People get upset
by that one!

- Of course they do.

- Well, if it makes you
feel any better,

we first considered
The Wheat and the Tares,

but we thought better
of it.

- I already told you

some people wouldn't
understand that parable.

- I'm not even sure
I understand

the Wheat and the Tares.

- [chuckles]
Give it time.

- The problem is they did
understand the parable

and it caused fights
in the street,

- Rioting...

between Jews
and Gentiles.

- Hmm.

- Leander's told us
it's getting worse every day.

The prominent Hellenist priest
has changed his ways,

which is good,
but...

when he abdicated his duties
as priest and leader,

others tried
to fill the void,

and so, projects
are going undone,

and people
are just angry

and blaming each other
for everything.

- It led to stealing,
fights in the streets.

Many people are actually
leaving their homes

to escape
the violence.

- That's the environment
you suggest sending us into?!

- What part of the parable
caused this fight to break out?

- The people
outside the city;

the ones in the highways
and the hedges,

the last
to be invited

and the last to accept
the invitation.

- That's what I suspected.

- Speaking of which--
the highways and hedges?

Does that actually
refer to Gentiles?

- [sighs]

He who has ears to hear,
let him hear.

We leave
in the morning.

Everyone, go home,
gather your things.

We take to the "highways
and the hedges" before dawn.

Boys...

this is part of it.

You try and carry
heavy things,

sometimes one
gets dropped.

But we pick it up
and keep going forward.

Hmm?

- Mm-hmm.

[indistinct conversations]

- John,
may I have a word?

- Yes, Rabbi.

- I can do that--

- This isn't
going to be easy.

- I'm sorry?

- The Decapolis
will be perilous.

The hearts I must reach there
are hard,

Jew and Gentile
alike.

Our time
will be fraught.

- We are ready
for anything, Master.

We have Zee.

I can ask my father to
come along for extra help.

He's good with crowds.

- I want you
to stay behind.

- The rest of us
will leave in the morning.

You will stay
and wait.

- [scoffs] You just said
the situation was fraught,

which means I should be there
more than ever.

- For what?

Strength in numbers?

Our challenges there
are not based on

how many followers
are surrounding Me.

This is not about
a lack of resources.

- Well, then,
what?

- Hard hearts,
John.

Cold,
unyielding granite.

- I don't
understand.

- You seemed to think
that we needed a full group

for this trip,
hmm?

Who was missing
at today's meeting?

- Oh.

- You will stay
and wait for him.

The success of this trip
depends on Simon.

- Master,

whatever it is you need,
I can provide.

- Waiting for Simon is what
I'm asking you to provide.

- Simon
is distracted!

He's not himself;
something is off.

Maybe...

maybe it's better
if he stays behind.

- John...
I love you,

but that's not the approach
I take to people in pain.

You should know that
by now.

- But what about
one of the others?

Wouldn't it be better
if one of them--

- You've known Simon
since childhood.

- But what about
Matthew?

They were able to work together
to find Mary in Jericho.

- Did you think that
pairing them up for that task

was a good idea
at the time?

[sighs]

John...
it has to be you.

No more questions.

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

[woman vocalizing]

- Where's your brother?

Is he okay?

- We've got our hands full
without worrying about it now.

[woman vocalizing]

[humming and chopping]

- Shalom, Simon.

- What are you
doing here?

- Did you sleep in?

- I didn't sleep
at all.

- Why?

- Where's everyone?

- They left before dawn
for the Decapolis.

No one told you?

- If you run, you could
probably catch up with them.

- I'm not much
of a runner.

- Simon!

What are you
doing here?

- I'm having a cup of water;
I'm thirsty.

- Why aren't you on your way
with the others?

Did they tell you
to stay behind

and look after
the women?

- I didn't know
about the trip;

I thought Andrew and Philip
went and sorted it out.

[sighs]

- You're disconnected,
Simon;

you have no clue
what's going on.

- You rebuke me,
Zebedee?

- Abba?

- Don't play games
with me, kid.

Salome and I
were at your bris.

JOHN:
Abba!!

- What's gotten
into him?

- What's gotten
into...?

Just go get
your things!

- Fine.

I travel light.

What are you doing here,
anyway?

- I came here
to wait for you.

- Really?

- Oh, believe me,
it was not my choice!

If it were up to me?
I would've left you behind.

- Ah, did someone
eat your breakfast, John?

What have I
ever done to you?

- It's what
you haven't done!

- This again?

- You miss meetings.

You hang around all night
with a Roman official.

Your wife doesn't even know
where you are!

- So leave me behind,
like chaff in the wind.

- [loudly]
I can't!

Jesus said the success
of this trip to the Decapolis

depends on you!

You,
of all people!

I don't
understand it,

and frankly, I feel
disrespected by it,

but what am I going
to say to Jesus, huh?

No?

- Yeah, you could.

- You know
I can't do that.

Let's go!
[huffs]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

- Andrew! Philip!

I knew you'd return.

- Why are you acting
like this?

- There's so much
unrest and anger,

I don't want
to draw attention to--

You...

You must be the Rabbi
we've heard so much about.

- More than "heard about,"
as I understand.

Rise, I'm sorry
for the trouble.

- No, the strife
between Jew and Gentile

was there all along
in Abila,

just simmering
beneath the surface.

It's simply
out in the open now.

It was bound to happen
sooner or later.

- It was bound
to happen now.

TELEMACHUS:
Rabbi!

- Telemachus?

- Jesus of Nazareth!

Your teachings
have reached us.

- So I've heard.

- He has not.

- What do you mean?

- He's deaf.

- My abba cannot hear
and can barely speak.

[trying to speak]

- Telemachus,
you're out of line.

This is not why
we need Jesus.

- Why shouldn't it be?

- Because Rabbi, there are
far greater problems right now

than one man's--

- I can think of
no better place to start.

- We didn't mean to spring this
on you, I promise,

I really didn't
know that--

[trying to speak]

- Please, Rabbi!

Please, I don't mean
to disrespect, but--

- I understand,
son.

- [trying to speak]

- It's okay.

[soft percussive beats]

[slowly exhales]

Ephphatha.

Be opened.

- [trying to speak]

- Don't be afraid.

That's what birds
sound like.

They sing.

[joyful laughter]

- I don't even
hear them.

- Abba!

Can you hear me?!

- The sound
of your voice...

the sound
of my voice!

Oh, Telemachus!

♪ ♪

[slowly]
Telemachus.

Am I saying that
right?

- Yes,
it's perfect.

- [over-articulating]
How?

How...
how do I know?

- How can we ever
repay you?

- I have no money,
no way to compensate--

- Actually,
you can.

- How?

- By telling no one
what happened.

I strictly charge you
to keep this quiet,

which should be
easy for you;

you've had
quite a lot of practice.

[laughter]

Now is not the time
for this word to spread.

Do you hear me?

- Now I hear you.

[laughter]

- That's good!

NASHÓN:
You've brought friends?

I thought we'd seen
the last of you!

And consorting
with Greeks, I see!

- Nashón, they're here
to bring peace.

Nashón is a healer.

Argo never had enough money
for Nashón to heal him though.

- Here to bring peace?

That's what they said
the last time.

You must be
the Rabbi.

The one everyone's been
talking so much about.

Tell me--

what sort of respectable Rabbi
would be speaking amicably

with a man who corrupts
our Hebrew children

by teaching them
Greek philosophy?

JESUS: If this
"corrupter of children"

were to raise money
for your fee,

would you
speak to Him then?

- He will never
raise the money.

I know that.

You want to dilute
our faith!

- How do you know
what He wants?

Argo!!

- What did you
just say?

The town deaf-mute??

LEANDER: He's not the
town deaf-mute anymore, Nashón,

now, go on your way.

NASHÓN:
Who did it?

I want to know
who healed you?!

Your deafness
was no doubt punishment

for some ghastly sin committed
by you or your parents,

and I want
to know who--

- [firmly]
It doesn't work that way.

- Oh?
Then how does it work?

[panting]

- What is it?

[distant conversations]

DION:
Ho-ho!

What have we here?

The Galileans return...
this time in droves.

- A drove is a flock
or herd of animals.

- Oh, I know.

- They're
Syrophoenicians--

- My friends,
you seem upset.

How can I help you?

- Are you the one they call
Jesus of Nazareth?

- I Am.

DION: They say
You do miracles.

All we've heard
is rumors and heresy

from the other side
of the Sea of Galilee.

Show us proof
of who You are.

Give us a sign...

or at least
some food and supplies

for all the people
displaced from their homes.

Otherwise,
take yourself,

your followers,

and your monotheism

back West
where you belong!

FATIYAH:
I'm in awe!

The Jews and their long-awaited
Messiah finally arrived

to cause
even more trouble.

And this
is His "army."

- Nabataeans...

FATIYAH:
How many is that, nine?

I have more children
than that!

Could I
be your Messiah?

- Blasphemy!

- Anyone else think we should
move to higher ground?

- I agree.

- Rabbi,
tell us what to do.

FATIYAH:
Wow.

Are your followers always
this strong and intimidating?

- Everyone,
calm down and settle in.

Looks like we're going
to be here for a while.

[crowd conversations]

[woman vocalizing]

SIMON:
Just one trip.

One errand
out of a thousand,

and this is the time
I can't miss?

- You said you'd go with Him
to the ends of the earth.

- That doesn't mean
every time He goes somewhere.

And the Decapolis is hardly
the ends of the earth.

- I didn't say
it was.

- You know,

I'm remembering something
you told me in Samaria.

- I prefer not to
talk about Samaria

if that's okay
with you.

- That field He tricked you
into cultivating

for a Samaritan,

to correct
your prejudice.

- It wasn't a trick,

and I'm not particularly fond
of that memory, Simon.

- Melech,
with the broken leg.

- Agh!

- You said in the morning
he was healed.

But we were already
at Photina's house;

Jesus didn't have to be present
to perform the miracle.

- What's your point?

- Why can't He perform
a miracle in the Decapolis

from Capernaum,

instead of dragging us all
into mostly Gentile territory

that already
has it out for us?

- Ask Him.

I'm sure He'd be
more than willing

to answer
your question,

since "success depends
on you being there."

- Oh, come off it!

He's nicer with you
than with me.

I don't hold that
against you, do I?

- Oh, how very generous
of you.

Any other virtues
you'd like to lord over me?

Simon
the exceptional.

Simon
the distinct.

And, also, yes,

maybe He calls me
"beloved" sometimes,

but that's only
because you have Eden.

I don't know what
you're whining about

when you have found
someone like her.

- Look,
I'm sorry.

I--I went too far.

I know I wouldn't want
anybody to resent me

for having a wife.

Simon?

Hey.

Hey, hey, hey, hey,
Simon.

Hey, I didn't mean
anything by it.

Simon, what's going--
what did I say--?

Simon?

- I trusted Jesus.

- Of course
you do!

W-w-wait, trusted?

- I trusted that Eden
would be okay...

safe,
while we were gone.

- I didn't know it,
John,

but before we all left
on our two by two missions...

we conceived
a child.

- And while
we were gone...

- Oh, no,
no, no, no.

I'm--I'm so sorry,
brother.

- [crying]
When it happened,

she almost died
along with the baby.

There was
so much damage,

the doctor said
she might never be able to...

- Adonai in heaven.

- Why didn't you
tell us?

- Because
I'm furious, John!

I'm so angry!

Look, He is
Who says He is.

I don't believe it,
I know it.

He's the first
and the last.

He can do
anything.

How could He
let something like this--

- Whoa, whoa, whoa,

that's not
the right way to think--

- --happen to Eden?

Happen to me?!

Let's--
let's keep going.

- You're not exempt,
Simon.

Remember He said that
in this world

bones will
still break,

hearts will
still break,

but He's making a way
for people

to access
a better kingdom!

- He heals
total strangers,

while I gave up
everything for Him.

- That doesn't mean your life
will now be perfect.

In fact, He said
the complete opposite.

- I don't want to talk
about this anymore.

Life was a whole lot easier
when we fished.

- She still could've
lost a baby

while you were
a fisherman, Simon.

We just wouldn't
have anybody to turn to.

- He could've prevented it
and He did not.

[distant conversation]

- Sounds like
we're close.

He said,
it all depends on you.

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[man vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[man vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[man vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[man vocalizing]

♪ ♪

[man vocalizing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
