04x08 - Humble

[rhythmic drum beat playing]

[crowd cheering]

[crowd] ♪ Hosanna! Our
king is victorious! ♪

♪ Hosanna! Our king
is victorious! ♪

[horn blow♪]

♪ Hosanna! Our king
is victorious! ♪

♪ Hosanna! Our king
is victorious! ♪

♪ Hosanna! Our king
is victorious! ♪

- ♪ Hosanna! Our king is victorious! ♪
- [horn blow♪]

♪ Hosanna! Our king
is victorious! ♪

♪ Hosanna! Our king... ♪

My Daniel! My boy!
[chuckle♪] Home at last!

Is it over?

[groan♪] The Ammonites
are defeated, Abigail.

[laugh♪]

And not a moment too soon. It's almost
Passover. Has the lamb been selected?

Inspected and approved by
the Levites this morning.

- Have the rites been performed?
- They didn't say. I can...

No, no. I want to do it.
Daniel, come with me.

[lamb bleating]

Ah! Here it is. This is our
lamb. Exactly one year old.

Spotless.

The Passover is in six days, which means
today is the day we have to anoint his feet.

But why, Abba?

Because he's going to come live
with us in our house for five days.

We have to mark him as special
and keep him clean. Understand?

- Clean?
- Yes.

Because after five days, we are going to offer
him as a sacrifice to atone for our sins.

The oil smells good, right?

This is the sacrifice
of the Lord's Passover,

for He passed over the houses of
the people of Israel in Egypt,

when He struck the Egyptians
but spared our houses.

Even the royal family eats
unleavened bread during Passover.

When God redeemed our people and
set us free in Egypt through Moses,

our ancestors had to leave so fast that
there was no time to let the bread rise.

So they took their dough
before the yeast was added

and carried it on their shoulders in
kneading bowls bound up in cloaks.

And God commanded
us never to forget.

I have one more Passover
story to tell you.

One that goes all the way back to that very day
they left with no time to let the bread rise.

This is a bridle.

[theme music playing]

♪ Oh, child, come on
in Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with
the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

The word has spread that he raised
a man four days dead at Bethany,

and there were
over 100 witnesses.

They were only witness to the
man walking out of the tomb.

They did not see him go in, which
means it could have been staged.

Why would so many people have come to
shiva if the person wasn't actually dead?

He has orchestrated more
elaborate spectacles in the past.

I was bleeding for 12 years
and my faith in him healed me.

That's no illusion.

Who can corroborate the facts of
your supposed previous condition?

Are we really getting into this?

And where is Jesus now? Will
he show up for the feast?

- I doubt he would miss the Passover.
- Unless he has something to hide.

The coward won't show his face.

He is no coward.

How can you call him a
coward when not a week ago

he stood up to you and the other leaders
when you tried to stone and arrest him.

We do not take
blasphemy lightly.

The law commands we put
to death false prophets.

You would have us
shrink from our duty?

I know what happened to me.

And I know what happened to me.

He is the Christ, and instead
of embracing his power,

you feel threatened by it because he
will be your authority when he is king.

Insolent witch! You will
recant your statement.

Or what? You'll stone her too?

Tell us more about Jesus.

[crowd] Yes. Tell
us more about Jesus.

More, more. More.

If I understood any of this,

it would be remarkable,
wouldn't it?

Jews from every corner
of the known world.

I could do without the endless slaughtering
of lambs, the shrieking and blood.

- You've read the story. What's to understand?
- I guess care is what I meant.

If I cared, it
would be remarkable.

Tell yourself whatever
you like, Pontius,

but I bet if I look in your library,
I'll find a piece of flatbread.

Stop it. You know
I've eaten it all.

Why has Tiberius not
sent more troops?

He knows the scope of this pilgrimage.
The population doubles and doubles again.

It's more than just the
numbers. It's the fervor.

Maybe Caesar is testing you to see if
you can have one week without incident.

Mm. A test I intend to
pass with your help.

Oh. Mm.

Oh, Atticus, have you
heard about the ghost?

What ghost?

Everyone is talking about
the ghost of Bethany.

That ghost.

Mm.

It's true, then?

So what if it was?

A raising of the dead.

A corpse one minute,
fully restored the next.

Their superstitious
madness knows no end.

- So you don't believe it?
- Of course not.

Right?

I have seen some...
things that, uh...

I can't explain.

I haven't decided if
it matters or not.

Well, Jews have rallied around
lesser phenomena before,

with lethal consequences.

Now you're thinking clearly, governor.
For them, it doesn't matter if it's true.

It only matters if
they think it is.

See, what concerns me is
that it concerns Caiaphas.

I don't know if he believes it or
not, but I can tell he's spooked.

Well, Caiaphas. Yeah.

He probably doesn't believe it, but
he is spooked that the people do.

It's all right. It'll be fine.

You just need to know

whether the arrival of a Jewish sorcerer
is a good thing or very bad for them.

Yes?

Yes.

This one is called Cove.

Three parts myrrh,
two parts cassia.

Lovely for burning
to purify a house.

Ten denarii.

And this one is Cleopatra.

Four parts cypress, one
part myrtle, in rose oil.

Very good for skin and hair.

Fifteen denarii, top shelf.

Hmm. Not top shelf enough.

- Excuse me?
- I want to see your oils that aren't for sale.

I know you have them. I've been to
dinner with many wealthy people.

I only bring those out for my
most loyal and liquid customers.

[coins clinking]

Wait here.

Derived from a rare,
flowering honeysuckle varietal

high in the Nepal mountains.

Used to anoint kings
in China and India.

Protected in a premium alabaster
vessel for temperature control.

Pure spikenard.

[♪niff♪]

How many ounces would you like?

- The whole jar.
- [♪coff♪]

My! You are charming, dear.

But truly, what do you
think? One and a half ounces?

I said, the whole jar.

[coins clinking]

I...

It's not possible.

This jar would cost more
than half a year's wages,

and I need the supply to
satisfy my wealthiest clientele.

And it would take me several months
to obtain another jar, it's...

You need to listen.

This is for the most important
king the world has ever known.

- Three hundred denarii.
- [coins clinking]

A full year's wages.

You can take the
rest of the year off.

Whether by sorcery or
necromancy or other dark arts,

we can no longer deny that these so-called
signs have been escalating in performance,

each more outlandish and
hysteria-inducing than the one before.

We say they are
just performances,

but what about the resurrection
of one Lazarus of Bethany?

There is no proof,

and rumors like this are exactly why this
rogue is a pox to this entire institution.

Has no one in this room
considered the implications

if this man was indeed
brought back from death?

That's what we're doing.

No, we are strategizing how to keep the
status quo and hoping these signs cannot be...

On this issue, I am with Gedera.

Jesus of Nazareth is not Elijah the Tishbite.
Only Elijah can raise people from the dead.

What if he is Elijah?

[angry chatter]

Honored Nicodemus encountered
him in Capernaum and observed...

Sit down, Yussif.

Nicodemus is recovering from illness,
but I am certain he would agree.

You do not know what you say.

My own father was at the shiva for
Lazarus and witnessed the miracle.

Everyone, please listen.

The possibly false teachings of
Jesus of Nazareth and purported signs

are the very reason I came to study
in Jerusalem in the first place.

I have the most complete
record of his words and deeds.

This matter of Elijah...

it bears investigating.

- What is there to investigate?
- No, Shmuel. That's irrelevant.

I strongly disagree.

I will go to Bethany and ask him
myself if he claims to be Elijah.

We don't have any more
questions, Shmuel.

The man claimed to be God
at the Feast of Dedication.

If we let him go on like this,
everyone will believe in him.

I'm seeing it firsthand even now, and
Rome will want to prevent a revolt.

Pilate will come and take away
our positions here in Sanhedrin

and then destroy
our entire nation.

- Exactly. This is the future we can expect.
- High Priest Caiaphas, may I go?

Gedera, you know nothing at all.

[chuckle♪]

I have already been given
a prophecy from God,

and I believe it is
about this exactly.

The prophecy is that a man
will die for the people

so that our nation
will not perish.

This may be that man.

We will hand him over ourselves
before there is an uprising.

Rome will not destroy us.
They will be grateful.

The only answer is immediate arrest
and execution, as Caiaphas has said.

I did not say immediate.

We are not legally
allowed to execute anyone,

with the exception of a ritual
stoning within the Temple courts.

If his death is to be
public and a spectacle,

it must be done by Rome.

If we move too quickly, they won't
recognize the favor we've done them.

- But how?
- Herod Antipas and his court

will be arriving in Jerusalem
for the festival soon.

They'll be attending the annual state
dinner with Pilate's administration.

I'll see to it the
topic is brought up.

He is pathetic.

And also, we ought not to be endorsing
his attendance at the state dinner.

Making sure our voice is heard is not
the same as endorsing it, Shammai.

I will make sure a letter is waiting
at Herod's compound in the city

when he arrives.

This meeting is adjourned.

[indistinct chatter]

- This is no longer about God to them, Yussif.
- You're just now noticing?

I have recently suspected some of them to
be utterly void of conscience, goodwill,

or true devotion to Torah, but
this proves it beyond all doubt.

What are you going to do?

Your father was at
Bethany for the raising.

Yes. He was a close
friend of Lazarus. Is.

Could he arrange a meeting with
Jesus? I've observed the man.

I've confronted him, even prayed with him,
but never conversed openly, without an agenda.

You don't have an agenda now?

If it is true that he has power
over life and death, then...

It surely must be.

My father is a rational man,
not given to sensationalism.

I simply want to know what his intentions are.
After all, we want the same things, don't we?

- To uphold the faith and honor God's Law.
- I wonder if it's as simple as that.

I'm not suggesting
any of this is simple,

but we in Sanhedrin have been
only reactionary toward Jesus.

Perhaps all of us, myself included, have
been too quick to take offense to his words.

I had not considered the sum
of his teachings and deeds

as worthy of a fair and
open-minded inquiry.

The Sanhedrin is
well beyond that.

Your father could at least
get us to Lazarus, right?

That much I know, yes.

Then let's go to him immediately.
There is little time to waste.

[indistinct chatter]

That time of year again.

- Praetor.
- It's Gaius. Please.

Gaius.

The Passover always makes my job a
little easier. The town nearly empties.

I would imagine so.
Will you miss us?

It's not like we get to
just take the week off.

Who is it that stays behind?

The elderly, those with child,
the infirm, and their caretakers.

Makes sense.

- But they still observe the Seder meal.
- Yes. Seder. I am aware.

You can expect to see an
uptick in demand at the market

for apples and walnuts and
cinnamon for the charoset.

Apples, walnuts, cinnamon.

Will you be making your own?

Not this year.

- You will be with your husband for the holiday?
- That's the plan. Yes.

- And that means you will also see...
- Yes, hopefully. I can't imagine not.

It's strange. I wish I
could go with you all.

I mean, you could.

No, no, it would cause trouble,
and I have my family to think of,

my full family, thanks to him.

Please, send word to Jesus
of my gratitude and love.

I will.

And tell Peter I said, "Shalom. Shalom."
Okay? Make sure you say it twice.

- I wouldn't do it any other way.
- And tell Matthew that...

Yes?

Just make sure he's all right.

- All right, everybody, time to go.
- You sure you don't want to come?

Thank you for passing the messages
along. I won't hold you up.

Are we late?

Almost. You have the praetor
of Capernaum to thank.

If he hadn't talked to Eden,
you would have missed your ride.

- Come. We still have to get Michal and my kids.
- Hope he enjoys his week off.

- This is our first Passover pilgrimage.
- Oh!

I've never seen the Holy
Temple. Can you believe that?

I wonder why.

- Let's go.
- Let's go.

[crickets chirping]

[ominous music playing]

[chickens clucking]

[indistinct chatter]

[Herod] Look at the city.

I've never seen it so
crowded for Passover before.

I'm telling you, it's
because of all these rumors

- about this magician from Nazareth.
- Please, guard!

Yeah, some place for a
magician to come from.

- Who'd he learn his tricks from, a goat?
- [Cassandra laugh♪]

He'll be coming
for the feast, yes?

I hope so. I've been hoping
to meet him for a long time.

He sounds so entertaining.

Your Honor, this is from
High Priest Caiaphas.

Apparently, it's urgent.

Caiaphas?

[indistinct chatter]

It's nice, by the way.

So, Lazarus. Six days to go.
Have you selected your lamb?

Yes. He's out back. I just need to
perform the rites and bring him in.

Whenever you're here, I seem
to neglect all my duties.

Oh, you're not neglectful. We just
have to soak up our time together.

[knocking on door]

Are we expecting someone?

Well, no one knows where Mary
is, but she wouldn't knock.

Well, we should be careful
who we let in these days.

Agreed.

Arnán!

Martha!

Much better circumstances than
the last time you came to my door.

- Come in.
- Thank you.

It's Arnán!

- Ah.
- Lazarus. Rabbi.

- Shalom. Shalom.
- Shalom. Shalom.

Please. I don't mean to interrupt. I brought
with me here a member of the Sanhedrin.

Shmuel.

- You remember me?
- Of course I do.

Well, I'm relieved I've not made a
great mistake in bringing him here.

- And the newcomer to the Sanhedrin. This is my...
- Yussif.

He gave warning in Jotapata that
people were looking for you.

I was looking for you.

Well, you found me.

And congratulations to you
both on your appointments.

Capernaum's finest.

Please. Will you join us?

- Please.
- Yes.

- Shalom, shalom.
- Shalom, shalom.

Boys, please.

[indistinct chatter]

This is a tremendous opportunity
for a strategic alliance.

Yeah. We'll see.

Rabbi, we have reason to believe that
there is danger lying in wait for you

at the highest levels
of Temple leadership.

I would not have expected that.

I'm joking. Go on. [laughing]

Jesus of Nazareth, your situation has
become a matter of life and death.

- It has always been.
- They tried to stone him in the Temple courts.

What we mean is your fame
has gone beyond fame.

It's not just many in
numbers, but much in debate.

- Lately, it's because of him.
- Oh, I'm sorry.

- I'll try not to die next time.
- No, it's all part of the plan.

Your ruin? That's part of your plan?
Because that's where this is headed.

[Jesus sigh♪]

Is that what you've
come to tell me?

- You've called yourself the Son of Man.
- Here we go again.

I'm not here to contest that
or take offense this time.

I'm open.

I can tell.

I see it in your eyes.

If you are who you say you
are, what is your plan?

The entire city of Jerusalem is eagerly
awaiting your arrival for Passover.

Some with open arms,
others with daggers.

Do you have an army
we don't know about?

If you are more than a rabbi,

you will have more than just Rome to
overthrow, but also many religious leaders.

- They will not join you in your quest.
- Perhaps you can help them do so.

This is the week.

Rabbi Shmuel, what
would you like to see?

Regardless of who, what is
your hope for a Messiah?

To usher in a new
Davidic kingdom

that drives out our oppressors and
restores justice and glory for Israel.

Hmm.

- Glory?
- Yes.

On a glorious throne
with prosperity for all.

A new golden age, with Israel
as the light to the nations,

revealing God to the
peoples of the world.

And you, what will
you do in that day?

Worship? Serve, I hope. How could I
possibly know until that day comes?

I will tell you.

When the Son of Man comes in his
glory, and all the angels with him,

then he will sit on
his glorious throne.

Before him will be
gathered nations,

and he will separate people one from another as
a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.

And he will place the sheep on the
right but the goats on the left.

Then the king will say to those on his right,
"Come, you who are blessed by my Father,"

inherit the kingdom that has been prepared
for you from the foundation of the world.

For I was hungry, and you gave me food.
I was thirsty and you gave me drink.

I was a stranger
and you welcomed me.

I was naked and you clothed me.

"I was sick and you visited me. I
was in prison and you came to me."

And the righteous will answer him, saying,
"Lord, when did we do these things for you?"

Then the king will answer,
"Truly, I say to you,

as you did it to one of the least of
these my brothers, you did it to me."

Then he will say to those on
his left, "Depart from me,"

for I was hungry and
you gave me no food,

I was thirsty and you gave me no drink, I
was a stranger and you did not welcome me,

"naked and you did not clothe me, sick
and in prison and you did not visit me."

Then they will answer him, saying, "Lord,
when did we see you hungry, or thirsty,

or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in
prison, and did not minister to you?"

Then he will answer
them, saying,

"As you did not do it to one of the
least of these, you did not do it to me."

This is a hard teaching.

I do not know how
to make it less so.

The Son of Man, the Messiah, is
identified with the lowest of all people?

The hungry, the
poor, the stranger?

That's what I've been preaching from
my opening sentence on the mount.

But what of all the Torah requirements
and traditions upheld by our forefathers?

The prophet Micah distilled such things down
to their essence, and you overlooked it.

"He has told you, O man, what is good.
And what does the Lord require of you

but to do justice..."

[both] "And to love kindness, and
to walk humbly with your God?"

Yes, but how do
you harmonize that

with the parting conclusion
of Qoheleth in the Ketuvim?

"The end of the matter,
all has been heard.

Fear God and keep his commandments,
for this is the whole duty of man."

A new commandment I give you...

that you love one another
just as I have loved you.

By this, all people will know
that you are my disciples.

That you have love
for one another.

What of the Temple, the
sacrifices, the law, the feasts?

Are not keeping these how nations
will know we are God's people?

The Temple, the sacrifices, the law,
the feasts, all fulfilled in me.

You would do away with them?

[Jesu♪] I said
fulfilled, not done away.

I don't understand
the difference.

[Jesu♪] Keeping the law is
a response to God's love.

But now that I am here, there...

[Mary of Bethany sobbing softly]

What is the matter?
Where have you been?

You were saying about the law?

- What's going on? Who is this?
- My sister Mary.

Mary!

- Spikenard.
- Mary, what are you doing?

You're letting your sister touch
his feet. That's degrading.

Have you heard nothing
of what the teacher said?

All right, this is
enough. Jesus...

Once again, Shmuel, there is no law in Torah
commanding that a woman cover her hair.

That's just tradition.

You're commending
her? Excusing her?

Shmuel, we don't know this
family. It's not our place.

Blessed are you, king of the universe,
for you have done all things well.

- Yussif, Arnán, we need to leave.
- No.

Rabbi Shmuel, I
understand, but...

She's performing an inappropriate
act openly, without shame.

And he is allowing it
while being called God.

We can't be found out for having
witnessed it and done nothing.

An open investigation, you
said. Let's see what he says.

Pure nard of the
highest quality.

What troubles you, Judas?

Why was this ointment not
sold for hundreds of denarii?

You just told a story about how caring for
the poor is akin to caring for the Messiah.

Yes! This could have
been given to the poor.

This could have been used for anything,
supplies, shelter, things we need.

But this, this is a waste.

- Where did you get this money, Mary?
- Leave her alone.

She has done a
beautiful thing to me.

For you will always have the poor with you, and
whenever you want, you can do good for them.

But you will not always have me.

She has done what she could.

She has anointed my body
beforehand for burial.

- Burial?
- What does that mean?

- Shh. Let him finish.
- And believe me,

wherever the Gospel is
proclaimed in the whole world,

what she has done will
be told in memory of her.

What your follower
said is right.

This act was wasteful, immodest,

and completely contradicts everything
you said before about the poor and lowly.

He said, "They will
always be with us."

The very notion
that such a disgrace

could be proclaimed throughout
the world as part of your Gospel

when instead it should be reproached,
rebuked, and condemned, it's...

I can't be in the same
room with this abomination.

Sounds like a personal problem.

I wanted to believe.

I came here to give you a
chance, and you've ruined it.

I'm sorry I couldn't help you.

I'm sorry I couldn't help you.

Rabbi, that is not the man we want to
upset if we're trying to unite our people.

For burial?

You. Where are you going?

I... I don't know.

You are the one who asked why the nard
wasn't sold and given to the poor.

- I'm not sure I should be talking to you.
- You're the only one in that room with any sense.

It doesn't take much sense. I
was just pointing out the facts.

If the parable he said was true, then everyone
should have seen how incongruous the waste was.

- There should have been more dissent.
- What are you going to do?

I'm not like you. I
believe he is the one.

I spoke up in that room because I care
about all of us getting this right.

We have an opportunity
this coming Passover

to unite over a million of our
people against our oppressors.

- This is too important to be divided.
- I agree with you.

- Our people should be united.
- [door open♪]

- I better go.
- May I speak to you again?

My apologies again
for the outburst.

- If I would have known, I wouldn't have...
- No, no, no. Jesus wanted to talk to him.

He is glad you came.

Shmuel made his choice.

I want you to know I do not
share his indignation. Please.

I know.

Good luck on the ride back to Jerusalem.
It seems like it could get awkward.

[Arnán] Ah, we'll manage.

We'll manage.

- Lazarus, shalom, shalom.
- Shalom, shalom.

- Shalom, shalom.
- Shalom, shalom.

[indistinct chatter
and laughter]

Pontius, show some solidarity with
me in enjoying the finer things, huh?

And stop pretending
you like our food.

I don't know why you hate
being Jewish so much.

I like this bread.

- [Herod] You hate it. You hate it.
- [Pilate] I like it. [chuckle♪]

I do not, however, enjoy accommodating
these unprecedented crowds.

I can't believe we made it to this
dinner without running someone over.

Not that you would have
noticed if you did.

You do know why there's so many
people here this year, huh?

A lot of time people
can find excuses.

"Oh, my eema is not feeling well," or "My
horse is pregnant, it's going to give birth."

"I rolled my ankle. The pain is excruciating. The
journey is too long. I'm not coming this year."

But this year.

This year.

This year what?

- You're telling me you really don't know?
- I want to hear you say it.

Well, apparently, there's
some kind of miracle worker.

Go on. Go on. Say his name.

Jesus of Nazareth.

Hades and Styx, Claudia.
He was almost there.

[Herod] Nazareth.

No one important or significant
has ever come from there.

The very fact that Claudia and I
know his name suggests otherwise.

Well, no one
inherently important.

I admit, I am somewhat curious about
the perception others have of him.

[laugh♪] Yeah. I
would imagine so,

seeing as how the
words "new king"

have even reached my house.

What words?

You heard "king" specifically?

I'm sure it was just a joke.

So, what about the issue of
the man from Bethany, hmm?

The one they say was
raised from the dead?

I received assurance from the high
priest. The claims are being investigated.

According to Caiaphas, who is
not given to overstatement...

if the raising of
Lazarus is confirmed,

the masses of people
will rise behind him

and you'll be looking at an insurrection
on the scale of the Maccabees.

Didn't you just say that he
was just a curiosity to you?

And before that,
no one of import.

Now you're referencing the
Maccabees. What am I looking at here?

It's Caiaphas' words, not ours.

If Lazarus is all that
this comes down to,

then you are all woefully
unskilled in the art of cunning.

Puerile.

Your move would be?

Well...

if you want to
delegitimize Jesus

by proving that Lazarus
is still dead, then...

make sure Lazarus is still dead.

- He means k*ll Lazarus.
- I know what he means.

I'll pass your idea along.

Hold on.

If Jesus did indeed raise Lazarus
and Caiaphas has Lazarus k*lled,

then why wouldn't Jesus
just resurrect him again?

Well, now that would really
be something, wouldn't it?

[all laughing]

[Herod] Yeah.

[indistinct chatter]

They come on foot,

hundreds of miles to an overcrowded
city with uncomfortable lodging options.

Do you believe in
anything so much?

I wonder what it would be like
to have that kind of belief.

- We believe things.
- What if it cost you something dear...

would you believe it then?

I don't understand.

I'm so sorry. Um...

- It's Joanna, right?
- Yes.

- I'm Claudia.
- Yes, I know.

Thank you. For everything.

Hmm.

Joanna, I'm so sorry.

I can't imagine how you
must have felt down there.

How I felt?

Everyone can see what's going
on between Chuza and Cassandra.

Oh.

- Yes.
- The gall.

That he would bring her here
under the guise of, what?

That you all needed
a travel companion?

- It's disgusting.
- It is.

Well, truthfully, what you're picking up
on is something I've already dealt with.

- He and I no longer share a bed.
- Neither do Pontius and I.

- Oh?
- Nothing scandalous.

He says I thrash
too much lately.

- Hmm.
- Hmm.

- Do you?
- Hmm?

Thrash?

How would I know?

I think he's just
having trouble sleeping.

Yes.

Do you think he's taking
this Jesus seriously?

He's trying not to.

- Or better said, he's hoping not to.
- Why not?

Hmm.

Maybe it's the wine,

or the fact that I haven't spoken
with an intelligent woman in a while.

But look, Joanna, it's no
secret that Pontius' assignment

was just as much about his father's
influence as his own qualifications.

And perhaps some of his actions

have been an attempt
to compensate for that.

Either way, his next
rebuke from Tiberius

will be his last.

- I see.
- Hmm.

I suppose he's hoping

that the tension and
anticipation in the air

is about something
other than the Nazarene.

I have a bad feeling about it.

So, either we both have
poor intuition or...

something serious
is about to happen.

What can someone
like me ever do?

I feel like a prop in
their theater of power.

- Like a decoration.
- I think we could be more than that.

If we believe...

in something as much as they do.

[both] Blessed are
you, Lord our God,

ruler of the universe, at
whose word all came to be.

Martha's cinnamon cakes. Why
do I feel guilty about this?

I don't know.

Mm. Mm.

Really good.

Mm-hm.

Ah.

- Shalom, boys. I have a surprise for you.
- Where have you been?

I went on a walk with
Thomas for morning prayer.

How is he?

Not great.

But look who I ran into.
Jairus dropped them off.

It's like she knew.

- Eema!
- Eema!

- Um, shalom, Eden.
- Shalom.

- [John] Peter is inside.
- Okay.

Abba, come outside.

So, what are you guys eating?

Shh.

Go into that village and immediately
you will find a donkey tied.

And with her a colt on
which no one has ever sat.

Untie that colt
and bring it to me.

You want us to steal livestock?

Mm, borrow.

Oh, what are the
terms of the loan?

If anyone asks you, "Why
are you untying it?"

You will say this: "The
Lord has need of it."

You want to borrow a burro?

Yes.

- What?
- Nothing.

- Let's go.
- So...

[♪peaking indistinctly]

[Zee] You're good.

- Are you sure?
- [Zee] Yes.

You forgot your
bag in your room.

Ah.

On purpose.

I knew you would
know I needed it.

This day has been a
long time in the making.

Generations.

Since Joseph isn't around to see it, I
thought it only fitting you bring it.

It represents him...

and a way for the three of
us to be together today.

What you said yesterday
about the perfume,

that she was preparing
your body for burial,

do you know how hard that
is for a mother to hear?

I can't shield you
from this anymore.

I'm sorry, Eema.

Maybe you should stay
back with Lazarus.

Perhaps that would be the more
loving thing for me to have you do.

One day at a time.

But I want to enter
this city with you.

Over there!

[donkey braying]

"On which no one has ever sat."

Come.

This must be it.

Is this the one?

[whistling]

[humming]

Who are you?

You're taking my master's colt?

The Lord has need of it.

- Our master.
- Now, hold on.

I don't know what kind of arrangements
you've made, but you cannot take...

Has anyone ever
sat on this colt?

- What?
- Please, just answer.

Uh, no. No one. But
what is this all about?

The Lord has need of this.

Are you followers of the
Nazarene that raised Lazarus?

Do you know the prophets,
especially those after the exile?

From Zechariah: "Rejoice
greatly, O daughter of Zion.

Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem!
Your king is coming to you."

[both] "Righteous..."

and having salvation is he,

"humble and mounted
on a donkey."

"On a colt. The
foal of a donkey."

This colt? Today?

What are you waiting for?

- Come on.
- Come on.

Centurion, your horse.

Hyah.

Hyah!

Be safe. Close to my Lord.

Lazarus! You're not coming?

Jesus said I should stay
back. Lay low for a while.

Time to go. We're running late.

[hooves thudding]

He's coming. Jesus
is on his way.

Jesus is finally here!

[excited chatter]

What the leaders don't want you to hear is
that we believe that Jesus is the Messiah.

[Zechariah] Excuse me.
Excuse me, excuse me.

- I was bleeding for 12 years in my...
- Excuse me, excuse me.

Wait, that's Zechariah,
it's Zechariah.

- Excuse me.
- [Veronica] It's Zechariah.

Jesus of Nazareth is on his way to
Jerusalem, entering from the eastern gates.

- You're certain?
- His followers have assured me.

He will enter the city soon.

- I wonder if my brother is with them now.
- Only one way to find out.

Let's go.

[Zechariah] Sorry. Excuse
me. Sorry. Excuse me. Sorry.

This infernal chaos. Why can
no one control these people?

Driver! Press forward.

[driver] I can't, sir.

[man] He's on his way!

Goodbye, Chuza.

Joanna.

What are you doing?

Joanna!

Come back here. Are you crazy?

- Hosanna! Hosanna to the Son of David.
- Hosanna! Hosanna to the Son of David.

Hosanna! Hosanna to
the Son of David.

Hosanna!

I know her.

[crowd] Hosanna! Hosanna!

Here.

Take all of it. Take
this whole bundle.

Here, take one.

This is for you. And you.
Please take one. Here.

This is for you.

This is for you. Here.

[indistinct chatter]

The time has come.

I must do the will of
my father in heaven.

I know you all have many questions,
and there will be a time for those.

But for now...

will you come with me?

Lord...

where else would we go?

You alone have the
words of eternal life.

No matter what
happens this week,

no matter what you see
or feel or think or do,

I want you to know
that in this world...

I loved you as my own.

And I will love
you till the end.

[theme music playing]

From this backwater village
in the Upper Galilee...

In this backwater village
in the Upper Galilee...

And the disobedience to
the... mind of the just.

I just screwed this
entire thing up,

and I started it so long ago I
could not get back on the track.

This will be used in sacrificial
offerings as a pleasing aroma to Adonai.

To anoint the high
priest and his sons.

[John] Not if it's going to be creaking in
the saps. In the... of Capernaum streets.

[♪coff♪]

[man] Did we not say "action"?

- Oh, did you guys?
- [man] Yeah.

Oh, I'm so sorry. I did not...

[Akiva] You will never
charge us a shipping fee?

I have to think
about it. Let's see.

- [Joanna] John, please! What are you going to...?
- Lepers are cleansed. Oh, sorry.

You've got, like, pant legs. I've
got... a skirt with a... in the middle.

Yeah, you have to... You have to get a training
with the ladies on how to... skirt sit.

Yeah.

Usually they cross their legs but I
feel like it'd be weird if Judas just...

[laughing]

We could be doing so
much more, Simon! Zee.

Jesus?

Ah!

Guys, I've been promoted.

[Jairu♪] It's more
than rumors. Read on.

What?

[all laughing]

So where were we?

Nowhere. We weren't anywhere. Just...
please. Just let me go. Please.

[indistinct chatter]

Even you.

Go with them?

Sure.

I have all my...

Jesus gave a new name to
Simon. Anybody want more wine?

Abba?

Oop.

Abba?

[man] Premature, uh, leakage?

That was really full.

Because after five days, we are going to offer
him as a sacrifice to atone for our sins.

The oil smells good, right?

- [laughing]
- [lamb bleat♪]

When God redeemed our people and
set us free in Egypt through Moses,

- our ancestors had to leave so fast...
- [bleat♪]

that there was no time
to let the bread rise.

So, they took their dough
before the yeast was added.

Making payments on
an overdue balance.

Oh, this?

Is not the right flask.

- Wake up.
- What?

You won't believe what I saw.

Your mother has lost her mind and
she's cooking bacon in the kitchen.

- Come help me.
- Oh, this is inexcusable.

All I want is to see
your kingdom come.

All I want are some
lamb chops right now.

[laughing]

Would you like me to go?
Maybe we could barter.

Some rosemary and thyme...
and some potatoes.

I want you to pay close
attention to my sermon tomorrow.

The events surrounding it and
the feelings inside of you.

I am going to betray
you so hard, man.

Lamb chops.

- Gross.
- I'm so hungry.

I'm hungry for vengeance.

- What?
- What?

- [Lazaru♪] Do you always complain so much?
- Only when I'm here.

- [Martha laughing]
- So much to complain about.

You need a job?

[laugh♪]

Not on your life, my friend.

That joke might not
work, in hindsight.

[all laughing]

So, what do you want me to do?

You want me to add another
sacred book that doesn't exist?

Rock, paper, scissors.

- One, two, three.
- Ah!

- Just be like Kramer. [as Kramer] Hey, Jerry!
- [all laughing]

- [man 1] Cut.
- [man 2] Cut. Let's reset.

Is this because he
didn't get to bury Ramah?

Please, will you sit with...

[♪catting]

The Jerusalem...
[♪peaks gibberish]

[all laughing]

[crowd] ♪ Hosanna! Our
king is victorious ♪

♪ Hosanna ♪

Rabbi Gedera, how can you make the
claim that there is no afterlife

when you, in fact,
have never died before?

Rabbi Gedera, are you flexible?
Because your arguments are a stretch.

- Do you really know how to read?
- [all laughing]

How tall are you? Because your
arguments are coming up short.

[man] Oh!

Sorry about all the pomegranate
seeds. What a waste!

I apologize. I mean,
I didn't know, uh...

- I wanted some pomegranate seeds.
- [♪tammering]

How dare us?

The pomegranate comes into town.

- Mr. Pomegranate, Mr. Pomegranate!
- Checks the table. Any little seed here?

- Sorry.
- Sorry, judge.

- [Philip] Rude.
- Judge Pomegranate.

[all laughing]

- [man] Cut. Cut.
- [laughter continue♪]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
