04x01 - Promises

As long as people pay,
we don't ask questions.

It's just, what business does
someone from Nazareth have?

You mean besides that a
woman can't travel alone?

Her parents asked
us to be discreet.

Then start talking
quieter, Tzofi.

Why the need for discretion?
Why choose us for passage?

- As long as people pay, we don't...
- Sometimes...

Sometimes when a virgin gets sent away
to stay with relatives for a while,

it is because...

she's not.

- You are so crude.
- [♪coff♪]

Well, this is your stop.

Hill country.

Thank you.

Oh. May God go with you on
the rest of your journey.

God be with you.

On the rest of your journey.

- Shalom.
- Farewell.

- [knocking on door]
- [Mary] Elizabeth!

Zechariah! Shalom!

Elizabeth, I'm here!

Zechariah!

Uncle?

Oh, Elizabeth!

- Look at you.
- He can't talk right now.

I'll explain later.

- Okay, careful, careful, careful.
- [Elizabeth laughing]

- I'm fine. Don't fuss.
- Sit, sit, sit.

- You sit. Just sit.
- Okay. Okay. I sit, I sit.

Blessed are you among women.

And blessed is the
fruit of your womb.

Wait. How did you know?

Ah. I suppose nothing
should surprise me anymore.

Something better than
that is happening.

So humbling.

Why is this granted to me that the
mother of my Lord should come to me?

- Did a messenger tell you about me?
- When I heard your voice,

just the sound of your greeting,
my baby leaped for joy.

And blessed are you who believed
there would be a fulfillment

from what was spoken
to you from Adonai.

So a messenger did
tell you about me.

The messenger came
to my husband.

- Zechariah said, "I don't believe it."
- Just slow down a moment.

You're in no condition
to be losing your breath.

When my messenger told me about
your news, I was so happy,

knowing how long you'd suffered.

I want to hear all about it.

The reason Zechariah
could not speak with you

is that he did not believe
the message from God about me.

- I wasn't sure at first either.
- I feel bad he has to go through this.

But I must admit, sometimes,
I don't mind the quiet.

- [both laughing]
- Stop it.

But he wrote down for
me what was spoken,

and I memorized every word,
that his name will be John.

Not Zechariah? Why John?

Perhaps he will not be a
priest like his father,

a different path for God,
for Zech was also told

John will turn many of the children
of Israel to the Lord their God.

And he will go before him, in
the spirit and power of Elijah,

to turn the hearts of the
fathers to the children,

and the disobedient to
the wisdom of the just.

And to make ready for the
Lord, a people prepared.

To prepare the way for...

Oh! There he goes again.

Feel it.

Oh!

Yes.

It's like he can't
wait to get started.

[theme music playing]

♪ Oh, child, come on
in Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with
the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

Four long fingers closed.

There.

Thumb resting at the side
of the first knuckle.

Yes. More feminine.

More purposeful.

Flip the palm, but not too flat.

Cupped as if to catch the rain.

Yes.

Too flat. Raise your heel.

Higher! Higher.

Up. Up on your toes.

The moment you feel
yourself start to fall,

bend your knees and swivel at the hips
so that your left foot can catch you.

No.

It cannot look like a mistake.

You must be in control at all
times, even if you are not.

Again.

Again.

Again.

Again!

No!

Again.

Again.

Closer.

Still, we are not
all the way there.

This mark is the last place your hands make
contact with the floor before the final flips.

- Do you understand?
- Yes.

From the end of section
two through the finale.

And go.

Too far away. Again.

Include the instruments this
time. The timing must be precise.

[drums banging]

And go.

[drumming stop♪]

- That's my girl. Take the measurement.
- [♪igh♪]

And now...

lower, lower, hips back.

Slower.

Make him wait.

Make it hurt.

There.

That wasn't so difficult.

Now, let's paint your face.

[Herodia♪] Not yet.

Do it one more time.

- [teacher] The bow?
- The whole dance.

- From the top.
- My queen.

You heard me.

It must be perfect.

Ah! These jars cannot
break, you understand me?

- Yes.
- Yes.

Our very first press.

The sacred first
fruits, holy to Adonai.

The way that James
has them situated,

they won't even make it to the
synagogue tasting in one piece.

[Big Jame♪] I was going to place
them and you already complained.

[John] Yes, but they're not secure.
They're going to break along the way.

[Big Jame♪] Why don't you
wait until we get on the road?

[John] Every road is
riddled with potholes.

I don't even know what
our taxes are paying for.

Are my eyes lying?

Oh, it's so good
to have you back.

Oh, I know.

- But I want to hear everything.
- There's straw between them.

They're not going to break.

Straw will not do us any good
if they bounce out of the cart.

That is not happening.

Strap them down with rope.

Ah. Okay.

You have the rope, then?

No, I didn't think so.

We're not fishermen anymore.

- So nothing has changed, huh?
- Been at it since you left.

Ramah! You aren't doing anything.
Come over here and lend a hand.

- Ramah!
- When did you get here?

Oh, I've been here.
But you were busy.

You know, arguing like this
is not good for the oil.

What?

This will be used in sacrificial
offerings as a pleasing aroma to Adonai.

To anoint the high
priest and his sons.

Not if it's seeping into the
cracks of Capernaum's streets.

- What are we supposed to do? Carry them?
- Ha! You'll trip.

[Big Jame♪] Abba,
I'm not Andrew.

- My footing is solid.
- Yes, but your hands are filthy.

Rope.

- So much to do. So much to tell you.
- Oh, my goodness.

By the way, can you read this?

Abba, the blessing. They're
expecting us on the hour.

Ah, of course.

[grunt♪]

As best I can remember.

Blessed are you, Lord, our God,

king of the universe, who
is good and bestows good.

Let the favor of the Lord, our God, be upon us
and establish the work of our hands upon us.

Yes. Establish the
work of our hands.

What? What are you looking
at? Did I mess up the prayer?

No. No, it's not
that. It's just, um...

The Greeks. They
put on plays, right?

We don't talk about that
sort of filth in this house.

[John] Yes, I know.

But my point is, they break up
the plays into acts and, uh...

And you, Abba, It's like...

It's like you're
starting a new act.

Hmm.

Comedy or tragedy?

I guess we'll find out.

Sorry to interrupt, but
we heard Ramah's back.

How did you hear that?

Well, we hear everything.
It's what we do.

And we also know that if she is
back, Thomas would like to see her.

- He cannot be alone with her.
- Oh, Barnaby and I will chaperone.

She's in the mission house.

[♪peaks in Hebrew]

Okay, let's go.

- Be careful.
- Yes.

- Don't go too fast.
- Yes, Abba.

- Don't go too slow.
- Abba.

[people chattering]

[Chuza] Joanna?

Chuza, I'm here.

What are you doing here?
It's the middle of the day.

A man has to explain what he's
doing in his own quarters?

What are you doing here?

A wife has to explain what
she's doing in her own quarters?

I've been looking for you,
but I didn't expect you here.

You haven't slept here in weeks.

And I wonder why that could be.

Listen, I don't want to fight.

I came to make sure that you're
fine for the banquet tonight.

Why wouldn't I be?

No reason.

Is that what you're
wearing? It looks great.

I'll consider
something else, then.

Fine.

Let's just be sure to have
a good time tonight, and...

And?

And nothing.

Have a good time.

Cooperate, regardless how the
evening goes, let's have a good time.

Cooperate? What is
this about, Chuza?

- Hmm?
- What do you mean?

I just want us to
have a good time...

You are not a good liar.

You're not a good
liar either, Joanna.

We know you've spoken
privately with the Baptizer.

What does that have
to do with anything?

- Who sent you to talk to me?
- No one.

Never mind. I just
wanted my wife to...

Don't say "have a
good time" again.

We both know that since you met
Cassandra, you don't care about that.

- Is Herod doing something with John?
- No.

No.

Herod finds John
entertaining and interesting.

- You know that.
- Yes.

And I know that it would be unwise
for him to do something rash

when the people
consider him a prophet.

He should be cautious.

I'm aware of your
support for him.

Just smile and pretend tonight.

That's all I'm asking.

I understand smiling
and pretending, Chuza.

I've had a lot of
practice doing both.

Have you really never
done this before?

Hadad and I always had
the laundry sent out.

And you have no savings left?

I had to divest my shares in the
company in order to follow Jesus.

- Wise choice.
- Sure. I mean, that's an understatement.

But one wise decision only highlights
how much practical wisdom I don't have.

Like how to wash clothes.

Well, lucky for you,
it's not that hard.

What is that?

Some salts, oil extracted
from plants, and animal fat.

[retche♪]

I, uh, wish I hadn't asked.

[Zee] Have to stir it well.

See, it's saturated?

Good.

Now, take the garment out and
dip it into the source water.

You know, if our funds weren't so low,
we could hire people to do the wash,

giving us more time to get to the
real work and expanding the ministry.

How would that look to people?

Like we're maximizing
the time and resources

to our task of building
the Kingdom of the Messiah.

So you think the followers of
Jesus will not do mundane tasks?

You're imagining a contingency
for something unsaid.

No one's examining
Jesus's books, Zee.

We should be out there, spreading
the word, gathering more followers.

This is what the people
we talk to do: laundry.

If we appear too lofty or
important for daily tasks,

we will no longer be relatable.

So you ball up the garments and
knead it hard against the rock.

Knead it.

Harder.

It gets the water out and dislodges any dirt
that is collected in between the fibers.

I'm not saying there couldn't
be a perception problem.

I'm just saying we could cross
that bridge when we get to it.

For now, we could do more
if we had more funding.

There's Zebedee's
olive oil business.

- Which has not brought in a shekel.
- Yet.

Yet.

Judas, you are learned.

Oh, thank you.

But you're not wise.

Oh, okay. Uh...

Thanks for that.

I like the learned part.

You have dedicated your
life to a teacher, yes?

He walks on water and
commands the wind and waves.

But sure, he's a teacher.

And yet you are
overlooking his lessons

to find fault in something
you don't understand.

There is a lesson in
everything he shares and asks.

Fine.

Where do I start?

You rinse away what
was scrubbed out.

You're making the
garment new again.

Now my favorite part.

This is for the most stubborn
bits of what was there before.

[both laughing]

Ultimately, it
helps it dry faster.

You know, I always wondered
why you never stink,

even though you, you
know, you'd always...

exercise all the time.

Even sweat is no match to your
strength when it comes to this part.

Well, I have to do something with my physical
strength now that I don't need it anymore.

Or at least not the
way I thought I would.

You see? You have it too.

- Have what?
- An old way of being in the world.

And you left it behind. But you
can't really shake all of it.

So you've adapted it.

Third and last rinse.

- I'm not sure I follow.
- I left behind a way of life.

And even though I'm living
radically different than before...

I just can't stop seeing how
we could be doing things faster

and more efficiently.

- Were you asked to run it more efficiently?
- No, just to keep the purse.

Then keep the purse.

But, Zee...

all the people he fed in the
Decapolis, they weren't all poor.

Some were just far from
home with nothing to eat.

If we had taken up a collection
of just 10% of the 5,000, 10%.

Accepted a fraction...

of people's offerings of gratitude,
those who could afford it,

we wouldn't be in such dire straits
waiting to do important work until...

revenue kicks in from
Zebedee's olive oil.

If he wanted to take up an
offering, he would have.

But he didn't.

You're asking why he didn't do it the way that
you would have done it before you met him?

The old me would
have sold the loaves.

You should be asking to whom
his charity was a lesson.

I believe his words
and his lessons.

They changed my life. But
they're not where this ends.

He's the Messiah, Zee.

- I know.
- Do you?

If he is the son of David, and if he
is to fulfill Isaiah's prophecy that,

"The mountain of the Lord's house shall
be established on top of the mountains,

and be exalted above the hills
and all nations flow to it,"

it's time to move faster.

He won't be king by amassing
no resources or power.

- It's unheard of.
- He's unheard of.

Prophesied, but never seen.

It's still dirty, Judas.

Come on, Zee. It's
my first time.

Plus, I'm not as...

as strong as you.

Then put your ingenuity into it.

Jesus asks us to get it
done. There is a reason.

Are you sure about that?

Because I'm pretty sure clean
clothes are their own virtue.

It will become more clear.

When I was new to this, I had some
tough lessons to learn, believe me.

Animal fat.

How? Wouldn't there be chunks?

No, it's heated and melted
and run through a sieve

to separate the solid
from the liquid fat.

It's sort of like when you sift
wheat to get rid of the impurities

and separate the good
grain from the bad.

[Jairu♪] Shalom. Shalom.

Right upon the hour as agreed.

Good sign already.

Of course, I should expect
nothing less from his followers.

Shh.

We haven't the time
for pleasantries.

The woman will wait outside.

- But I helped make the oil.
- Tamar.

Just for the transaction, hmm?

I'll stay back and watch
over the cart with you.

Hmm.

First, can you confirm this anointing
oil was blended by the perfumer

according to the formula laid
out by the Book of Moses?

To the letter, Rabbi.

Recite it, please.

Of liquid myrrh, 500 shekels, and of
sweet-smelling cinnamon, half as much.

That is 250 and 250 of aromatic
cane and 500 of cassia,

according to the shekel of the
sanctuary, and a hint of olive oil.

Word for word.

Extremely well
racked and purged.

[Jairu♪] It's clear and bright.

[Akiva] It does
stay on my fingers.

With all respect, Rabbi,

we believe the viscosity is due
to the correct amount of myrrh.

The gum resin is expensive. It
has binding qualities necessary...

Jairus, why are we considering
a new oil supplier?

Our current vendor travels
a great distance from Judea.

From the Gethsemane groves
nearest the Holy City.

There are none better.

Rome has demarcated Judea as a
separate province from Galilee.

They imposed an import
tax on goods from Judea.

In addition to the tariff, we currently
also pay for shipping and labor.

Zebedee is local.

You will never charge
us a shipping fee?

Never, Rabbi. I will
put it in writing.

I don't know much
about economics, Rabbi,

but supporting a local small
business can help Capernaum...

You may drop the facade, Yussif.

You honestly think I don't
know who your father is?

Yussif makes a point.

It's about responsible
stewardship.

I am the chief administrator
of the synagogue.

The matter is settled.

Zebedee, congratulations
on fine work.

[Akiva] Let the record state that
I voiced reticence at the notion

of abandoning the
Gethsemane vendor,

so that future generations will
know that at least one person

advocated for preeminence of tradition and
precedent over finance and practicality.

Please reflect the rabbi's
dissent on the record.

It is so noted.

Zebedee, please, accompany me to my office
where we may discuss a fee structure.

Queen Herodias. I
believe we are ready.

I'm sure you are.

We must make sure
that Salome is.

Go, lead her through
it one more time.

If I may.

We are pushing her too hard.

- We must rest her before...
- It must be perfect.

We must overwhelm him.

I will do it with drink, you
will do it with her performance.

My queen, I know the Baptizer
insulted you, but there are...

"Insulted"?

Insulted.

Do you believe my marriage
to the king is wicked?

Of course not. I...

Do you believe I should be
returned to that pauper, Philip,

and his meager Judean territory?

And give up my marriage to Antipas
who rules the entire region?

- No, my queen.
- Why not?

If the Baptizer's comments in front of
the whole royal court were just an insult,

as you put it, why
not endorse him?

Perhaps I should just
ignore this little insult

and allow for the entire region to
publicly rebuke all of my decisions.

I apologize, my queen.

I will work with
Salome right away.

Come.

No visitors today.

Why?

A high-profile inmate is being
transferred to a cell near ground level

so that we're ready to take
action at a moment's notice.

- Take action?
- Are you hard of hearing?

Sorry. That won't work
today, I'm afraid.

By "take action at a moment's
notice," what do you mean?

- What is happening?
- I can't be certain,

but usually this sort of thing means
the inmate is about to be freed...

or ex*cuted.

By whose orders?

By whose orders?

Herodias.

John!

- John, something's happening!
- Stop!

- John, there's a plot. They're going to k*ll you.
- Stop!

The blind see, the lame walk.

Lepers are cleansed.

The poor have good
news preached to them.

No. No!

[John the Baptizer] The hearts of the
fathers are turned to the children,

and the disobedient to
the wisdom of the just.

The way of the Lord is prepared.

Finally separate enough
to have a moment together.

- Bless Barnaby and Shula.
- Mm-hm.

[Ramah chuckle♪]

Before we went away to the Decapolis
and everything happened there,

which, to be honest...

From what I've heard,

you're probably still having a
bit of a hard time accepting.

I'm getting better, right?

- At accepting things I cannot explain?
- You are.

You're not the same man
from the wedding at Cana.

So, there is actually somebody

who is still the same man
that he's always been.

Mm.

My father.

Tell me, how did it go?
Talking to him after I left.

That good, huh?

He loves you very, very much.
There is no denying that.

No denying it.

And he knew what I was going to ask
him, actually, before I fully did.

He made that clear to
me back in Samaria.

Nothing gets past him.

- Kafni is a hard man, Ramah.
- I was hoping he'd understand.

I thought he'd be able to
do this. Let me grow up.

He finds Jesus objectionable,

and he disagrees with our choice to
leave the profession and follow Jesus.

I truly love you, Ramah.

There's got to be some
way to make this work.

I was hoping you'd say this.

- You were?
- Of course.

- I have an idea.
- You do?

I've carefully researched every detail,
every rabbinic tradition, every minor detail.

You did?

Mm-hm. According
to the Halakhah,

in the event of an absentee father or
exceptionally uncommon circumstances,

which I believe our following
of Jesus constitutes,

there is a special dispensation
for validating a marriage.

A male who is at
least 13 years old...

verbalizes the formula...

[♪peaking Hebrew]

"You are hereby consecrated to me
according to the law of Moses and Israel."

Upon recital, the groom must give
the bride some object of value.

If she accepts it, she thus validates
the quiddushin as a legal act

and is designated as betrothed,
consecrated to him alone.

So, wait.

Is that it? That's
all you have to...

The formula must be spoken in the
presence of two competent male witnesses,

one representing the groom and
one representing the bride.

I will ask John
to be my witness.

And we both know there really is
only one man who can represent me.

[both] Jesus.

The only one who
can give me away.

- We'll ask him.
- And then it's done.

It will take some time
to draw up the contracts.

I assume they must be
signed by an official rabbi

who can confirm the circumstances
are indeed extenuating and unique.

Yes.

If only we knew where we could
find a rabbi who could do that.

Can this really happen
within our faith?

It feels right. But is it?

I suppose it wouldn't be the
first unorthodox betrothal

in the history of our people.

Esther married a Gentile
king to save Israel.

David didn't wait for his
father to pick his bride.

Even Jesus told us about his
parents' unconventional arrangement.

- He could be...
- Thomas.

Yes?

We don't compare to them,
but we do have Jesus to ask.

He can decide.

Yes, of course.

Well, one unconventional
arrangement will not be ours.

Mm.

Ruth was a Gentile and she snuck into
the place where Boaz was sleeping.

We're not going that route.

- I'm asking you.
- Ah.

I forgot that part.

Well, we'll see how that goes.

Will you forever walk with me,

and read with me,

and rattle off endless rules and
extenuating circumstances with me?

Hmm.

Yes!

Ah-ah-ah.

[Barnaby] My boy.

The one time I wish
she still couldn't see.

We're getting married!
It's all right!

I had one job.

[drummers playing rhythmic beat]

Listen to me, okay?

First thing we're going
to do, first thing is...

I want to see you
eat that whole bone.

[crowd cheering]

[indistinct chatter]

That woman.

[crowd cheering]

- Oh, boy.
- Why don't you drink?

- I feel better.
- Oh!

Only you drink. You drink.

If I can't see it,
it did not happen.

Dropping crumbs in my
lap. Go searching...

- [Cassandra] What do you want me to...?
- Go searching.

[whispering] Our father, who is
in heaven, hallowed be thy name.

Thy kingdom come, thy will be
done, on earth, as it is in heaven.

temptation, but
deliver us from evil.

[indistinct chatter]

[clang♪]

- [♪ervant] Sir?
- Go on.

- You're right. Mm?
- My love.

You'll see.

I'm fine. I can do this myself.

Honorable guests, noblemen,

military generals, commanders,
and leading men of Galilee.

I present to you, for
the king's pleasure,

and in the venerable tradition,

a special offering by Salome,

daughter of our most
high queen, Herodias.

[crowd applauding]

- Exciting. What's Herodias' angle?
- Mm.

I have a feeling I know,
but let's wait and see.

You know that if Herod is pleased,
he can't say no to anything.

[rhythmic drumming]

[panting]

[all applauding]

Ask of me anything you wish
for, and I will give it to you.

Anything?

Up to half my kingdom.

[♪alome whispering]

[rabbi] Blessed are you, Adonai
our God, ruler of the universe,

who has sanctified us
through your mitzvot

and has commanded
us to bring our sons

into the covenant of
Abraham, our Father.

[crowd] May this little
one grow to be great.

[rabbi] God of all our
ancestors, sustain this child.

Let him be known among the
people and in these parts,

as Zechariah, son of
Zechariah and Elizabeth.

No, Rabbi, per God's command,
his name will be John.

Oh.

That's a nice plate.

Silver?

Only the finest.

Only intended for a
royal wedding banquet,

requested by King Herod himself.

[chuckling]

Why are you laughing?

I've never been to
a wedding banquet.

But I'm on my way to one.

What's that mean?

Oh, never mind.

You wouldn't get it.

Are those your final words?

"You wouldn't get it."

Just a few more miles.

Elizabeth, none of your
relatives is called John.

- I know.
- Zechariah, what is this about?

Is she doing this because
of what happened to you?

Jesus the Nazarene.

Avner.

Shalom.

[grunt♪]

[gasp♪]

Blessed are you...

Blessed are you, Lord, our God,

king of the universe.

John, son of Zechariah
and Elizabeth of Judea,

here on this day, by order of
Herod Antipas, the tetrarch,

you are hereby sentenced
to death by beheading...

[guard continues indistinctly]

Thank you.

[♪obbing]

[Jesu♪] Oh, John...

- An ox, we can get.
- Right.

- Later.
- What?

For the camel. That's all.

What's the morning report?

The ones with the
news aren't back yet.

Which might be a good indication.
Perhaps there are details to work out.

Or they got rejected yesterday

and they're drinking away
their sorrows at The Hammer.

Sleeping it off. I hope not.

Hey, there they are.

What is this I see?

We got the account.

[all chuckling]

- They bought every last jar, huh!
- [♪imon] The old man comes through, huh?

[Big Jame♪] It was a tough crowd. It
was Adonai alone that got us through it.

Yes, but Abba wasn't the only one
trying to close a deal yesterday.

You can ask her.

[Nathanael] Ah, yes.

I'm curious about
the little songbirds.

- It's lovebirds.
- It's songbirds.

It's always been songbirds.

- [Little Jame♪] What are you talking about?
- Well, out with it. How did it go?

Yes!

- Yes!
- Mazel tov!

Mazel tov!

So it's really going to happen?

There are a couple of steps
we have to take care of,

one of which involves you.

Hey, just don't ask me
to sew the chuppah, huh?

- [Big Jame♪] I don't want to do that either.
- Congratulations.

- So, this is very good news.
- Yeah.

[Zechariah] Blessed be
the Lord God of Israel,

for He has visited and
redeemed His people

and has raised up for
us a horn of salvation

in the house of
His servant, David.

[indistinct chatter]

[Joanna] Andrew!

As He spoke by the mouth of
His holy prophets from of old,

that we should be saved from our enemies
and from the hand of all who hate us.

- [knocking on door]
- Andrew, are you home?

Joanna.

[♪obbing]

No, no, no.

- No, no, no.
- I'm sorry.

- Andrew, what's wrong?
- No. It's... It's John.

- Are you Philip?
- [Juda♪] No.

I'm Judas. Philip is away.

- I'll tell Philip. I'll tell Philip.
- Okay.

John is...

To show the mercy promised to our fathers
and to remember his holy covenant,

the oath that he swore
to our father, Abraham.

[Juda♪] Please, Andrew.

Oh, no.

We knew this day would come.

We should have been prepared.

We were.

John came to prepare the way.

And he did.

He was not the Messiah,

but John came to bear witness
that he would be here soon.

[Andrew] Now we have to...

We have to find
Jesus and tell him.

I'll go with you.

You don't have to.

[Zechariah] To grant us that we,

being delivered from the
hands of our enemies,

might serve Him without fear,

in holiness and righteousness
before Him all our days.

And you, child,

you will be called the
prophet of the Most High.

For you will go before the
Lord to prepare His ways,

to give knowledge of salvation to His
people in the forgiveness of their sins,

because of the tender
mercy of our God.

Whereby the sunrise shall
visit us from on high,

to give light to those who sit in
darkness and in the shadow of death,

to guide our feet
into the way...

of peace.

[theme music playing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
