04x06 - Dedication

[Peter] Go, go! Go! Hurry up!
Come on, move!

-On the table. There.
-Move, move!

Let's go, go!

[all shouting]

[coughing]

Hey, hey. Let's go, let's go.

Yeah, yeah. Easy, easy.
Careful. Careful with his head.

Careful with his head.

Is he alright?

What happened?

Watch his head. Somebody get some water!

OK, James.

-Give me some blankets!
-Blankets, fast!

Let's just warm him up.
Everything's gonna be fine.

Here.

It's not stopping.
Just apply pressure here.

[indistinct chatter]

Watch his head. Watch his head.

Don't get up. Don't get up.

-Don't get up.
-It's okay, it's okay.

Little James, here.

- Watch his head.
- James, you're going to be OK.

James, stay with us.

Come here. Come here.

Everywhere we go, hate! His teachings!

Everywhere we go, it
scares someone in power.

We're gonna need more wood!

We need to dry these clothes
before we catch our death!

[Andrew] That was terrifying.

-How can we ever go back there again?
-Surely we'll have to.

We should stay here in
Prya for the time being.

We'll talk about it later.

Here, Big James, just one more sip, okay?
Come on. Easy, easy. There we go.

James, you're going to be OK.

-What does it mean?
-[John] Is he bleeding anywhere else?

Andrew, check his
leg. Is he bleeding there?

[Andrew] The
bleeding is not stopping.

[Little Jame♪] One more sip. Come on.

-One more, one more.
-Shh! Hey!

[theme music playing]

♪ Oh, child, come on in
Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, oh , oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

Blessed are you, Lord our God,
sovereign of the universe,

who has sanctified us
with his commandments

and commanded us
to light the lights of Hanukkah.

And so the Feast of Dedication begins.

[all] Blessed be the name of the Lord
from this time forth and forevermore.

From the rising of the sun to the setting,
the name of the Lord is to be praised.

The Lord is high above all nations,
and his glory above the heavens.

After Alexander, son of
Philip the Macedonian,

whom some have taken
to calling Alexander "The Great,"

but whom we call Alexander...

[all] "The Worst."

-[growl♪]
-[all booing]

...had defeated King Darius of
the Persians and the Medes,...

he succeeded him as king.

[all booing]

-[Nathanael] Go back to Greece!
-[Jesu♪] He fought many battles.

[crowd grunting]

[♪hout♪]

[all shouting]

[Jesu♪] Conquered strongholds.

[grunting]

And slaughtered the kings of the earth.

-James!
-[all laughing]

He advanced to the ends of the earth
and plundered many nations.

[grunting]

He gathered a very
strong army

and ruled over countries,
nations, and princes.

[cackling]

-[Jesu♪] Then he fell sick.. .
-[groaning]

...and perceived he was dying.

So he summoned his
most honored officers

and divided his
kingdom among them.

Then he died.

No!

[all cheering]

From them came a sinful root,...

Antiochus Epiphanes.

-[growling]
-[all booing]

Antiochus hated Israel and he hated God.

He attacked Jerusalem on the Sabbath,
knowing the Jews would not fight.

He went into the
temple and defiled it

by slaughtering
a pig on the altar,

sprinkling its blood on the holy of holies,

and poured the swine's broth
onto the Torah scrolls,

which were then shredded and burned.

[all] "The Abomination of Desolation."

Tremble, O earth, at
the presence of the Lord,

at the presence of the God of Jacob,

who turns the rock into a pool of water,
the flint into a spring of water.

Oh, Mary.

I love it.

-Thank you.
-You're welcome.

No big deal. Got you a little something.

Whoa. It... It's so...

-[Peter] Nice, huh?
-Nice!

[Peter] I thought it was perfect for you.
You like it, huh?

-Matthew.
-Yes?

I , um...

I got you something.

That's... Wait, I've got
something for you too.

Oh, well, that's lucky
for both of us, then.

Yes, I suppose so.

Okay. Here you go.

-You first.
-No, no, no. You go.

Uh...

It, it,it's fine. It's fine. We'll
open at the same time.

-Okay. That's a good idea.
-[chuckle♪]

Okay.

Wow, a new stylus!

I noticed you were
running low on parchment.

And I noticed you've been using
the same quill since...

Well, you know, the early days
before when you were still a, um...

Yeah.

Oh, okay.

[Matthew] Thank you.

I'm just, um...

I'm glad I'm not the
only one writing it all down.

-Hmm.
-It's better that it's both of us.

I agree.

Antiochus set up pagan altars
in every town in lsraeI

and forced Jews to cat pig flesh
to prove their conversion from Judaism.

If they refused, they were ex*cuted.

But God raised up a band of fighters
led by Judah Maccabee, also known as...

[all] The Hammer!

For seven years, the Maccabees
revolted against the Greeks,

just a handful of rebels
against 65,000 troops.

Until finally, 192 years
ago this very week...

they at last reclaimed Jerusalem,
destroyed the statue of Zeus in the temple,

and rededicated the altar.

[all shouting]

There was just one problem.

They only found enough
uncontaminated oil

to light the temple menorah
to burn for one day.

But miraculously, it
burned for eight nights,

giving them enough time
to produce a new batch of pure oil.

That is why we celebrate this
Feast of Dedication for eight days.

The end.

[all cheering]

[all] Precious in the sight of the Lord
is the death of his saints.

O Lord, I am your servant,
I am your servant,

the son of your maidservant.

You have loosed my bonds.

I will offer to you the
sacrifice of thanksgiving

and call on the name of the Lord.

[playing somber traditional music]

♪ Who is like the Lord our God ♪

♪ What idol has more worth? ♪

♪ No command ♪

♪ Has proved unsure in
heaven and on earth ♪

♪ The hand of God both great and small ♪

♪ A shelter, staff, and shield ♪

♪ Blessed be great God of love ♪

♪ In day and night revealed ♪

[all] It is better to take refuge
in the Lord than to trust in man.

It is better to take refuge in the Lord
than to trust in princes.

[peter] Come on, Andrew.

-Yes. Yes.
-Come on, Andrew. Just focus.

[indistinct chatter]

-Come on.
-Come on.

There he goes. There he goes.

Come on.

One, two, three.
I formally declare Andrew the victor.

[all cheering]

[both] The Sons of Jonah are revenged!

The strength of a fisherman.

-What do you got?
-[Andrew] Sorry, it's a bit late.

-I can't believe Andrew won that.
-Even I didn't see that coming.

[laughter]

Ah. Everyone,
I have an announcement to make.

On the final day of the feast,
we will make pilgrimage to the Holy City,

where I will give a sermon.

A teaching.

-Is that bad news?
-It's great.

Of course, that's good.

-Yes, we're excited.
-It will be wonderful.

Rabbi, it was not great
or good or wonderful

the last time you gave a sermon
around religious loaders.

I see no reason why your teachings
will be acceptable

to the ruling class of
priests any time soon.

We should be prepared.

Peter.

Well, this has been a festival night
I will never forgot.

Especially that.

[chuckle♪]

Thank you all.

[Nathanael] Thank you , Rabbi.

-Go again.
-Go again?

That was a good match.

-[Juda♪] You want to lose twice?
-[Big Jame♪] It's okay. Andrew.

-I want revenge.
-That was a good fight!

Just you and me, no more ties. One on one.

It's 1 -1. Just one more,
let's go. Let's go. One more. One more.

[all shouting]

Hand-hammered. Real calf loather.

What other kind would there be?

I can't get over how thoughtful
it was, from Peter.

You are way too comfortable
calling your brother by his new name.

He slugs me if I don't.

It's definitely an upgrade
from that sad little string you had before.

-Matthew?
-Mm?

Are you going to record
that my brother gave me

a handmade belt for
the Feast of Dedication?

No.

We need to think of
the right gift for Thomas.

He only wants one thing

and we cannot give it to him.

Anything we do give
him will just remind

him that he cannot
share it with her.

We can't not give him anything.

Even if it seems pathetic, it's...

it's the gesture.

Something practical.

Like some new sandals.

-He has nicer sandals than all of us.
-Except Matthew.

Thank you.

But those were made
for standing and showing off,

not for walking the number of miles
we cover in a day.

Yes, I do have blisters.

Oh, Thomas, yes.

He's hurting in so many other ways,
he doesn't even notice.

Do we have enough money for a new pair?

[coins clinking]

Matthew?

Huh? Uh...

ls there another purse?

Uh...

Uh, ask Judas.

Yes.

We want to buy new shoes
for Thomas, for his gift.

He has vegetable-tanned sandals
imported from Cyprus.

-Yes, but they're not made for walking.
-Then he should trade them in.

He could get three fully functional
pairs with that barter.

-Yeah. We set aside money for gifts.
-Poe gifts we can afford.

Where is the other purse?

What are you talking about?
There is only one. From Joanna.

No, no, no. But there has to be another.

I went through it and it only contains
half of the shekels Joanna sent.

Yes, we spent them on the inn.

It's a lot of people and a lot of rooms.
Some on food, then the gifts.

No, I’ve done the math
and it does not add up.

-I know what the allotted amounts were.. .
-Well, I don't know what to tell you!

Do you want to take
over keeping the purse?

It sounds like you think you
could do it better than me.

I'm not asking for your job, Judas.

And that is something
I would like to leave behind.

But facts are facts.

Numbers don't just change just because
I've directed my attention elsewhere.

Maybe that's where
you should keep your attention.

-People's lives arc at stake, Matthew.
-Lives?

Our people have waited
thousands of years for this moment.

I'm aware.

We're on the knife's
edge of history, Matthew.

The Messiah is
finally here,

and we're moving so
inefficiently and slowly

that we may very well run out of funds
before he can even spread his message.

We owe it to the entire nation of Israel

to be more scrupulous with the money
that is entrusted to us for his work.

It's too important.

-Lot's head into town, Matthew.
-Uh, yes, Peter.

Did you get the money
for the gift from Judas?

-I think we're going to have to barter.
-Why?

Is he being stingy?

I don't know.

My son. They told me you were in here.

The servants are headed to the butcher

to get some lamb shank
for tonight's Feast of Dedication meal.

Would you like another cut?
Your eema is intent on fattening you up.

No. Whatever you get will be feast enough.

Yussif...

ls everything all right here?

I just need to finish this thought.

Who are you writing to?

I don't mean to pry.

If I ask for bread,
would you give me a stone?

What?

If I ask your servants
who are going to market

to bring back a fish,
would you instruct them to bring a snake?

-That is absurd.
-Answer the question.

Never. You are my son.

If you, then, who are evil, know how
to give good gifts to your children,

how much more will your father in heaven
give good things to those who ask him?

"You who are evil?" Is this a riddle?

-Talk to me.
-It's something I heard a rabbi teach.

"If you are seeking God ," he said,

"ask, and it will be given to you.
Search, and you will find.

Knock, and the door will be open for you."

God will not hide his messenger from us,
if only we have eyes to see.

Are you getting enough sleep?

Because your eyes seem red to me.

I am plagued by thoughts
too difficult to explain.

We can get you help.
Surely one of the priests can...

Don't give up on me, Abba.

-Don't what?
-Please.

Like the fragments
from the sermon I just quoted you

and as you yourself have said,

I am your son, and I only ask one thing:

Don't give up on me.

No matter how it goes in Sanhedrin,

trust me that I love God
and I will always be faithful.

I never doubted you.

Even when I didn't understand you,
I never doubted you.

Even when I disagreed with your decision
to go into the north, I never doubted you.

I know I spoke harshly to you at the time,

but deep in my heart,
I thought what you did was noble.

And secretly, sometimes...

just sometimes, I wish that I didn't always

take the path of least
resistance in my life.

-Your words honor me beyond my deserving.
-You do deserve it.

-Stand with me?
-Of course.

Always.

Um...

Well, you have some
important writing to do.

I will leave you to it.

Thank you, Abba.

Of course.

Thomas, let's check out
the apothecary booths, huh?

We're running low on soap.

-That never seems to bother this group.
-Well , that's why I'm bringing you.

I don't know anything
about the finer things.

You know, Eden says I have
no sense of smell or taste.

Is that true?

No.

She says I don't know what to call things
or I use the wrong words.

I try to compliment her cooking
by saying something is sweet,

but it wasn't meant to be sweet.

I just meant so good.

So, what would you say this is?

I don't know. Like, some kind of flower?

Herbaceous.

It's close enough.

Cedar leaf and basil. Maybe a little lemon.

It's not close at all.
You're just being nice.

I thought we were supposed
to be looking for soap.

Thomas.

How have you been feeling?

It's a feast time.

Mm-hm.

But you didn't answer me.

We’re celebrating the Feast of Dedication.

I'm supposed to feel grateful, I think.

Who cares what you're supposed to feel?

Look, the Maccabees
overthrew the Greeks so we

could have full lives,
not be wooden figures.

Then I feel horrible.

Thank you.

-Thank you?
-Yeah.

For the truth.
It's always the best place to start.

What I'm interested in is when it will end.

Is there any moment where
you don't feel awful?

When we have some important work
to do, that takes my mind off things.

If I can just think about the task at hand,
I'm okay.

But apart from that...

in the stillness, everything just...

Aches.

You know?

Look, I never met the person that I lost.

Ramah told me about Eden's miscarriage.

The women, they... they talk to each other
about those kinds of things.

She tell you how badly I took it?

She didn't have to.

I was on the boat, remember?

-You weren't subtle.
-Yeah.

I don't know the meaning of the word.

Do you remember what he said to me
on the sea?

That he allows trials
because they prove the

genuineness of our
faith and strengthen us.

At the cost of someone's life?

I had the same thoughts
in the depth of my pain,

I assure you, and they
only made things worse.

-Doesn't make them wrong.
-It's not wrong to question,

but it does become wrong
when you don't accept the answer.

I just don't understand
why he didn't help Ramah.

We've seen the miracles he does.

Walking on water, multiplying food,

powers that have not been scan manifested
in the history of the earth.

Why couldn't he have prevented her
from being struck at all ,

or even stopped time before her dying,
or even bring her back?

When I turn these things over in my mind,

I go back to what God said
through the Porphet Isaiah.

"'My thoughts are not your thoughts,

neither are my ways your ways,'
declares the Lord."

You know, he can create a world
where we have no free will

and where nothing ever goes wrong.

But that's clearly the
future. It's not now.

Don't throw scraps
of prophets around , Peter.

I know all the same words.

Were they any help to you?

Here. This one for the women.

[♪niffing]

-Cloves?
-Nope. Lavender oil.

And these two for the guys.

Okay. I got this one. Wet moss.

Vetiver and basil.

Maybe I am a lost cause.

Absolutely.

[Judah] Jairus?

-From Rabbi Yussif in Jerusalem.
-Thank you, Judah.

[all] Not to us, O Lord , not to us,
but to your name give glory,

for the sake of your steadfast love
and your faithfulness.

Why should the nations say,
"Where is their God?"

Our God is in the heavens.
He does all that He pleases.

[playing upbeat traditional music]

[indistinct chatter]

I'm very exited to see
Thomas actually smiling.

Yeah.

Thank you so much

[all] Ah!

-You said you had sore feet.
-[Thoma♪] I get blisters all the time.

-[Big Jame♪] Yeah, look at this.
-[Thoma♪] Thank you so much.

[Peter] it grabs your heels like this.
You then can move.

[Thoma♪] So we can walk much faster, huh?

-Thank you. This is great.
-[Peter] This is fresh leather.

It can grab your feet.
It's going to be very comfortable.

-L'chaim, eh?
-L'chaim. L'chaim.

Thank you.

But once we have everyone...

-Excuse me?
-Yes?

-Sorry to interrupt.
-Not a problem at all.

Someone dropped off
this message for you

today from the other
side of the Jordan.

Oh.

-Thank you very much.
-Of course.

-Whose idea was this?
-Technically, James...

-Thank you , James.
-Of course.

But we were all in on it.
Matthew sorted out the funds.

[Thoma♪] Thank you, Matthew.
It means the world to me.

[John] Peter was the distraction.

What happened?

Rabbi, are you all right?

It's word from Bethany.

Laz is sick.

Sick? How sick?

-Very sick.
-What? We were just with him.

He would never let on something was wrong.

What's wrong?

Lazarus is very sick.

Do we need to go see him?

No, not now.

This isn't the sickness
that loads to death.

My friends...

[music stop♪]

I think I will retire for tonight.

But you all, please continue.

Enjoy yourselves.

Shalom. Shalom.

[all] Shalom. Shalom.

Why don't we.. .?

Andrew, let's have another song, eh?

Little James, I can't get enough
of that voice. Come on.

Why don't we bring the women
in on this one?

-Yes.
-No, no.

Yes, the Song of Miriam.

-[Thaddeu♪] Oh, I need that.
-[Big Jame♪] Let's do it.

-Please, ladies, bless us.
-Please.

Someone will have to teach me.

Okay. It goes like
this. Mary, can you join?

♪ I will sing ♪

♪ I will sing ♪

♪ To the Lord ♪

♪ To the Lord ♪

♪ For he has triumphed ♪

-[Tamar] ♪ Poe he has triumphed ♪
-Great.

♪ Gloriously ♪

♪ Gloriously ♪

[all laughing]

[instruments continue playing]

[♪igh♪]

[indistinct chatter]

I, I have an idea.

What if we set up donation points
in the various villages that we visit?

Who would manage the funds abroad
and how would they get them to us?

In every place we've gone,

Jesus has made a special connection
with someone, sometimes even hundreds.

-We could collect upon visitations.
-I still don't get it.

We could appoint a person in every village
who could spread the word to others

who believe in the message of our rabbi.

We could tell them
that if they want to

support the work of
the Messiah, they can,

by gathering aid so
that he is well-supported

the next time he
makes it into town.

How would you vet their character
and trustworthiness?

Ask for references.
Letters of recommendation.

Yes, but if Jesus was
worried about funding,

don't you think he would have set up
something like this already?

If we had something like this set up,

then we wouldn't be threshing
and winnowing wheat ourselves.

We could just buy flour at market.

I , for one, am enjoying learning
about the process of how it's made.

Manual labor feels
good when you've been

sitting around a lot,
doesn't it, Matthew?

No one? I ...

Really?

We've bought flour at
the market before, Judas.

This just isn't one of those times.

[Little Jame♪] In the words of Qoheleth,

"For everything there is a season,
and a time for every matter under heaven."

This is the time for us
to make the flour ourselves.

[groaning]

[clears throat]

-You look so excited Andrew.
-Please, thank you.

-For Peter. Is that everyone?
-Thank you. Here you go.

[indistinct chatter]

-[Matthew] It was fun.
-[Thaddeu♪] Yeah, it was.

-[Matthew] A lot of steps.
-[Andrew] May I eat now? Okay.

[Tamar] Yeah, I think so.

-Oh, thank you.
-Of course.

I was thinking about
your idea from earlier.

Oh, you like it?

Well, I had an idea of
my own a few weeks back.

About supporting the ministry?

Well, I kept telling myself
that's what it was about.

Oh, you mean when you and James
asked to sit at his...

Sit at his left and right hand. Yes.

You see, we asked for what we wanted
based on our own understanding,

our own ambitions.

He was not happy.

Not just he wasn't happy, he was
heartbroken at how little we understood.

You believe I'm doing this
from a lack of understanding?

Well, it is your idea. Hmm?

Does he not want us to be creative,

to think critically, to use the gifts
Adonai gave us to serve him?

Look, I've been here
since before he announced who he is

and there's still so much
I don't understand.

I'm not presuming.

I'm seeking to understand.

I want to reduce the strain,
the uncertainty around resources,

so we can get back to work to building
the kingdom that he is church to build.

Look, Judas,
I don't question your intentions.

What do you think I should do, John?

Ask him.

Fern! Mabe! Sunny!

He calls them by name.

I have sheep and shepherds on my mind.

Is there something on yours?

All I want is to see your kingdom come.

Well, that's, uh...

That's quite a conversation starter.

[both chuckling]

I want that for you too.

I want everyone to.

And I want to remove any obstacles
that stand in the way of that.

Obstacles?

Limitations. Barriers.

Whatever your vision is,
and I know it's beyond my wildest dreams,

I want to make sure that
you're never held back by not

having
enough resources.

You told us to be as gentle as doves,
but also wise as serpents.

Is this not wisdom?

Has Joanna's donation run out?

Oh, no. But...

we're getting close with the holiday
celebrations and the gift giving.

Hmm.

I was thinking, we could set up donation
points in the various villages that we...

You're right.

My vision for the world
is bigger than you can dream.

I want you to pay close attention
to my sermon tomorrow.

The events surrounding it.

And the feelings inside of you.

Ah, Jairus!

The first pressing, a full day early.

-We're ahead of schedule.
-Zebedee. Quickly, please, come inside.

I. .. But the press.

Leave the oil for a moment,
I'll have someone come watch it.

It's urgent.

Are my boys okay? What is it?

Rabbi Yussif, who left
for Jerusalem to secure

a seat on the Sanhedrin,
you remember him?

-Of course.
-He has discovered a plot.

A small group of
Pharisees who lead a select

committee on the
Reclamation of Beersheba

-from Edom into Judea.
-What?

They want to see Jesus ex*cuted
to bring attention to their cause.

What does Jesus have to do
with land boundaries around Beersheba?

He doesn't.

Believe me, I'm familiar with these people
from my time in Jerusalem,

and I am sure they barely know
about his teachings.

This is... This is
wholly political , purely

to advance the agenda
of their pet cause.

On what grounds would they claim?

I, I know there was an edict issued from
Jerusalem, but not a death sentence.

Not anything close.

Torah contains passages

prescribing the death penalty for both
false prophecy and Shabbat-breaking.

All they need is an event.

-One misstep.
-All kinds of people break Shabbat.

He is not all kinds of people, Zebedee.

The situation is fraught. Jesus has
become a highly controversial figure.

He's the Messiah.

Not the one they're
looking for, apparently.

And anyway, this is not about Jesus.

Those people are distracted by their
own agendas. They’ve become ignorant.

Surely ignorance is no
match for who Jesus is.

That would never get in his way.

-I don't know, Zebedee.
-What do you mean, you don't know?

We must get word to your sons
about this imminent threat.

This concerns them as much as it does us.

-Can the synagogue dispatch a messenger?
-No. No, it is too risky.

The Sanhedrin have ears
and eyes everywhere,

especially here, considering
his history in Capernaum.

[♪igh♪]

Then who can we trust?

What?

It will only be for a few
days. A week at most.

What does this say?

Jairus wrote a letter of introduction
to some of his old colleagues

in the sourcing and maintenance department
of the temple in Jerusalem.

-The temple?
-Would I be talking about another one?

He endorsed the
quality of my oil and its

suitability for use
in the sacred rites.

Zeb, this is unthinkable. The honor.
Your oil at the temple?

While in Judea, I'll divert to find
James and John and the others

to get a message to Jesus.

A message?

Don't worry, my love.

Trust Adonai.

Please be careful.

At least let me send
some food for the boys.

There's no time.
Shalom, shalom, Salome.

Well, if I can't send them snacks,
tell the boys I love them!

I will.

[all] Save us, we pray, O Lord.

O Adonai, we pray, give us success.

Blessed is he who comes
in the name of the Lord.

We bless you from the House of Adonai.

The Lord is God .
He has made his light to shine upon us.

[Jesu♪] Amen.

What's wrong?

The last time Jesus preached in public,
it ended in tragedy.

Let's go.

Yeah. Okay.

Ah.

-Here you go, sir.
-Thank you very much.

[indistinct chatter]

Listen carefully.

He who does not enter the sheepfold
by the door, climbs in by another way.

That man is a thief and a robber. Hmm?

But he who enters by the door
is the shepherd of the sheep.

The sheep hear his voice and he calls
his own sheep by name and leads them out.

When he has brought out all his own,
he goes before them,

and the sheep follow him,
for they know his voice.

-Have you seen him before?
-No.

They won't follow a stranger,
but they will flee from him,

for they do not know
the voice of strangers.

I'm not sure I follow this.

Yeah, this figure of speech you're using,
could you say it more plainly?

We want to understand.

[Jesu♪] Hmm.

This is important.

I am the door of the sheep.

All who came before
me are thieves and robbers,

but the sheep
did not listen to them.

-Go get Ozem.
-[Jesu♪] I am the door.

If anyone enters by me,

he will be saved and will go in
and out and find pasture.

The thief comes only to steal

- [Jesu♪] and k*ll and destroy.
...recognize anything after Torah,

we can't have a discussion.

There's only five sacred books.
That's it. There's nothing else.

-Psalms, David. I.. .
-David is not Torah.

It's not sacred scripture, okay?

There is no way in this world
that we're ever gonna agree...

-Can we agree on that?
-What?

Okay. Okay.

Huh.

[Jesu♪] I came that they may have life
and have it abundantly.

I am the good shepherd.

The good shepherd
lays down his life for his sheep.

He who is a hired hand
and not a shepherd ,

-who does not own the sheep.. .
-Come with me.

-...sees the wolf coming.. .
-Let's go.

...and leaves the
sheep and flees,

and the wolf snatches
them and scatters them.

He flees because he is a hired hand
and cares nothing for the sheep.

I am the good shepherd.

I know my own and my own know me,

just as the father knows
me and I know the father,

and I lay down my life for the sheep.

He fits the description
of a man we're looking for.

-Do you know who he is?
-Not yet. I was waiting for you.

[Jesu♪] And I have other sheep
that are not of this fold.

I must bring them also.
They will listen to my voice.

"Other sheep not of this fold."
Are you referring to Gentiles?

So there will be one flock, one shepherd.

For this reason, the father loves me,

because I lay down my life
that I may take it up again.

That's not real. There is no resurrection.

At least not one that any
mortal man could have

authority to enact for
himself, once perished.

-We need to do something.
-Just pay attention, Judas.

-Someone has to go get Shammai immediately!
-He’s gone for the holiday.

[groan♪]

How can we pay attention when these men
keep talking and insulting him?

Jesus never specific
what to pay attention to.

No one takes my life from me,
but I lay it down of my own accord.

I have authority to lay it down
and I have authority to take it up again.

This charge I have received from my father.

-Rabbi, what do you mean by "charge"?
-You claim to be the Son of God?

-Answer the question!
-Who is your father?

Will you be quiet?
We are trying to listen to our rabbi.

Those are not the teachings of any
credible rabbi, but of an insane person.

Mark my words. You
will regret saying that.

Watch your mouth.

You're speaking to a member
of the Great Sanhedrin.

Judas, get back here.
You're missing all the details.

I didn't see his face when I went
to the Decapolis to investigate,

but Jesus of Nazareth is the man who broke
bread with the mass of Gentiles there.

The heretic in Shammai's creed is said
to be well-spoken and a remarkable teacher.

-Those were the ravings of a madman.
-Or someone demon-possessed.

If demon-possessed,
then he must be removed from the temple!

-Unclean!
-What does he mean by "my father"?

Certainly, he's not speaking in the manner
of God through the prophet Isaiah,

"But now, Adonai, you are our father,
We are the clay, you are our potter."

The "we" is Israel.
We are all God's children.

Then what father
is he talking about?

Shammai's reports
hint at claims of Messiah.

I was too late last time.

I won't be this time.

You!

You're Jesus of Nazareth, aren't you?

[Zebediah]
How long will you keep us in suspense?

-If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.
-I told you and you did not believe.

-When? When did you tell us?
-Blasphemer!

The works I do in my father's name
bear witness about me.

What do you mean, "my father"?

But you do not believe
because you are not among my sheep.

You would utter such a profanation
amid the pillars of Solomon's porch?

-Have you no shame?
-My sheep hear my voice,

and I know them, and they follow me.

He just said that he's the Christ
and we did not believe!

This blasphemy is enough for capital
punishment, and we are on temple grounds.

Stones! We need stones!

What? Stones?

I give them eternal life,
and they will never perish,

and no one will
snatch them out of my hand.

[Gedera] No one can grant eternal life.

Your desecrations of heresy
will be purged from this sacred place.

Rabbi, maybe we should ...

My father, who has given them
to me, is greater than all,

and no one will be able to snatch them
out of the father's hand.

I and the father are one.

[crowd shouting]

No! No! Stop!

Stop! Stop this!

No! James' head!

I have shown you many good works
from the father!

-For which of them do you stone me?
-Good works?

If you've done any,
that's not why we're stoning you.

It's for blasphemy, because
you being a man, make yourself God.

You call me a blasphemer
because I said "I am the Son of God"?

He who utters such a
thing shall be punished

by death according
to the Law of Moses.

You know little of the Law of Moses.

Guards! Someone get the temple guard!

Arrest him!

-Stop! Stay back!
-[crowd shouting]

Stop! Stop!

-Hey!
-[Zee] Stop! Stop!

If I am not doing the works of my father,
then do not believe me,

but by my works, you should understand
the father is in me and I am in the father.

[crowd shouting]

-Enough! Stay back!
-Stay back!

-Run! Run!
-Stay back!

Why are we running?

-We have him. Why can't we fight back?
-Later, Judas.

Off. Off, everyone. Off the road.

-Everyone down. We can't stay on the road.
-Go, go, go.

-Come on! Go!
-[Peter] Guys, come on.

Go, come on. Go, go.

Come on. Come on.

This way!

Come on. Come on!

Go! Go!

-Careful!
-Let's go!

-Let's go!
-Come on!

Go, go! Go, go, go!
Hurry up!

-On the table. There.
-[Zee] Move, move!

Let's go, go!

Go go. Let's go. Let's go.

[John] Careful. Careful with his head.
Careful with his head.

Careful with his head.

Watch his head. Somebody get some water!

-[peter] Give me some blankets and water!
-A blanket as well!

[Peter] Warm him up.
Everything's gonna be fine.

-Here.
-[Little Jame♪] Just lie down.

-Watch his head.
-[Peter] See if he can see.

Don't get up. Don't get up. Don't get up.

-Little James, here.
-Excuse me, Rabbi.

-Watch his head.
-[Philip] Right.

James.

Come here. Come here.

James, you're going to be OK.

We're gonna need more wood!
James, stay with us.

We need to dry these clothes
before we catch our death!

[Andrew] That was terrifying.

-How can we ever go back there again?
-Surely we'll have to.

[Zee] We should stay
here for the time being.

We'll talk about it later.

Here, Big James, just one more sip, okay?
Come on. Easy, easy. There we go.

-What does it mean?
-[John] Is he bleeding anywhere else?

Andrew, check his
leg. Is he bleeding there?

[Andrew] The
bleeding is not stopping.

[cart approaching]

The bleeding is not stopping

James is going to be OK.

-[Little Jame♪] One more, one more.
-Shh! Hey!

Is he bleeding?

What's going on?

It's Zebedee.

-Abba, what's going on? What happened?
-You tell me. You’re soaked and bleeding.

-James!
-Abba.

-[John] It's okay. Easy.
-Abba, I'm all right.

[John] He's fine.

He's all right. He just
got hit in the head.

The bleeding's starting to stop.

I think he's okay, all right?
He's responding to us. He seems to be okay.

We got attacked.

At the moment, he's okay.

-I'm all right.
-The bleeding is not stopping.

-[Zee] Keep him talking.
-[John] He got hit in the head.

The bleeding is starting to stop.

Lazarus is dead.

And I think it's stopping.
It's stopping now a little bit...

Shh! Everyone, everyone!

Mary, what?

Lazarus has died.

What does this mean?

How did this happen?

Peter, you told us, Rabbi said he...

Rabbi, may God give you comfort
among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.

But I thought you said his sickness
wouldn't lead to death.

We will go back across
the Jordan into Judea.

Rabbi, just hours ago,
they tried to stone you there.

-Stoned?
-That's how this happened.

-You would go back to that?
-It's not safe, Rabbi.

Rabbi, perhaps they
would agree we should

delay coming back
and might appreciate it.

Our friend has fallen asleep...

but I will go and awaken him.

Wait. He's just asleep?

Rabbi, what are you talking about?

-What did the note say?
-If he's asleep, then he’ll recover.

-Thrace’s no need to put you at risk.
-Asleep like that little girl?

-James!
-The note says dead.

Rabbi, tell us what you intend to do.

Lazarus has died ...

and for your sake,
I'm glad I was not there,

so that you may believe.

You're about to be given firmer grounds
for which to believe.

Rabbi, you just said he was asleep.

Are you feeling all right?

What does his death
have to do with our belief?

Come with me...

and you will see.

Everyone put on dry clothes.

The sun will soon rise.

I don't understand.

If we're going back
into Judea, it might

as well be to the
house of Lazarus.

That we may die with him.

Teacher!

-How could you let this happen?
-What do you mean?

I was standing in front of him.
They were throwing rocks.

John and Zee weren't able
to shield you from every stone.

Where does it hurt?

Everywhere.

Inside and out.

I hurt inside too.

Why?

Because you have been listening.

-Let's get him up here.
-Yeah.

James, can you walk?

-Well, I got here, didn't I?
-I mean, on your own.

We were holding you up.

[groan♪]

Why did you yell at me a minute ago?

-You were going to mention about.. .
-Boys, boys.

I have to talk to you about something.

Is Eema all right?

You never explained why you came here
without sending word.

We couldn't risk
the dispatch being intercepted.

-What?
-"We"?

This happened to you in Jerusalem?

-At the hands of who?
-Religious leaders.

They tried to stone him and arrest him.

-On what charge?
-The usual.

Blasphemy. False prophecy.

Did it seem premeditated?

No. They sort of just drifted over to us
and overheard Jesus' teaching.

Jairus received a letter from a source
within the Sanhedrin.

What just happened to all of you...

It's about to get worse.

[theme music playing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
