04x04 - Calm Before

[man] Quintus Benedictus Dio.

Having sworn the sacramentum to Caesar,
the Senate, and the people of Rome

to lawfully fulfill the conditions of service
as praetor of Galilee on pain of punishment,

and found guilty of the m*rder
of a citizen under your charge,

you are hereby reduced
in rank, gradus deiectio,

and relegated to lesser service, militae
mutatio, to be determined at tribunal.

[in Latin] Make haste slowly.

[in English] Congratulations...
Praetor Gaius.

[♪omber music playing]

[♪obbing]

I wanna do something.

I wanna help him.

You know that's not
how grief works.

I'm failing.

Failing at what?

This is not a test.

Being...

you know.

I don't.

Who I'm supposed to be now.

How... How can I be a rock for
someone in a moment like this?

Thomas doesn't need you
to be a rock right now.

He needs a firm
footing to walk on.

Everything just pulled
out from under him.

This is the way
of all the earth.

For now.

Loss?

You know the truth.

Ah...

I can't just tell him this
is the way of all the earth.

Then maybe don't
say anything at all.

Would words from Thomas have helped you
after you found out about Eden and the baby?

You have experienced loss.

That makes you more able to go
and simply be there with him...

rather than being the rock.

What just happened? I don't
even know what just happened.

I'm so sorry.

She's gone. She's
gone. She's gone.

I know.

Just...

Just breathe.

I can't.

I can't breathe.

I'm gonna be sick.

[panting]

[Peter] Lie back.

What can I do?

[♪omber music continue♪]

What if we'd had
kept our eyes on her?

Please don't.

I was holding her hand.

I lost her.

She was m*rder*d, Mary.

Nothing could have stopped
the evil in his heart.

Could he have stopped it?

Ask him.

[♪omber music continue♪]

[John] Someone should
be with Thomas.

[Peter] No, he needs
to be alone right now.

How can you be sure?

Believe me.

What I'm about to say, I can
only say in front of you two.

- It's been rattling around in my head all day.
- Careful, James.

Why didn't Jesus do the thing
he did with Jairus' daughter?

I was thinking the exact same thing. A single
word from him and we would not be here.

Boys, we vowed to never speak
of what we saw in that house.

To anyone else.

We know what we saw.

I understand where
you're coming from and...

I wrestled with exactly the same question
about Eden, why he didn't intervene. I...

- I resented his miracles for others.
- That seems like a reasonable response to me.

- Yeah.
- Just remember the words of Isaiah.

"'For my thoughts are not your thoughts,
neither are my ways your ways, '

declares the Lord."

[all] "For as the heavens are higher than the
earth, so are my ways higher than your ways,

and my thoughts
than your thoughts."

That doesn't make
this any easier.

Jesus had a reason for
allowing what happened to Eden

that I didn't
understand at the time.

I...

I may never fully
in this lifetime.

But I do know it made
me desperate for him.

You know, Thomas was not
inside Jairus' house.

He does not know for certain that Jesus
even can bring someone back from death.

But he believes that Jesus can do
anything, and why shouldn't he?

And was Jairus' daughter
more important than Ramah?

- Than your unborn child?
- Enough.

We told Jesus we'd
keep it a secret,

and now, more than ever, it's clear
why Thomas must never find out.

What if Jesus does it
again? But for someone else.

It would destroy Thomas.

Let's just take this one
day at a time, all right?

Also, we are his
students, not his equals.

- I never said we were his equal...
- If we don't know the answer to something,

we can let Jesus
speak for himself.

You'll write it down.
Matthew will write it down.

And time will reveal the wisdom
hidden in these mysteries.

But I trust in a God
that walks on water.

Yeah.

Seems like we don't
do that enough, huh?

Yeah.

Get some rest.

Remember when we fished?

The older guys used to call
you "James" and me "John"?

They got it right half the time.
And it wasn't just the old guys.

- [both chuckle]
- No.

People used to see us as the same
because we were never seen apart.

We did everything together.

We fished together, we went
to the Hammer together.

Yeah.

Synagogue together.

Then we followed Jesus together.

But when you went on your
mission with Thomas...

you came back and...

it felt like you were
closer to him than me.

Like he was new and interesting
and I was old and boring.

I never meant for that.

- I'm sorry.
- No.

The bond is obvious.

We're doing the most important
thing of our lives, John.

Of anyone's life.

And you're doing it with him.

- James, we're all doing it together.
- But some have become closer in the process.

I admit...

I was jealous of your
friendship with Thomas.

But none of that matters now.

What matters is that
he is in pain...

and he needs you.

- Me?
- Even if you don't know what to say,

you just being there would mean more
to him than any of the rest of us.

[♪omber music continue♪]

[inaudible dialogue]

[crying]

[Peter] That's it. Just breathe.

It's okay to cry,
but just breathe.

No.

What?

No, it feels wrong to
breathe when she isn't.

I can't relax, and
I don't want to.

[Jesu♪] We have sent word to
Tel Dor in the Plain of Sharon

that we are on our
way to bring her home.

[♪omber music continue♪]

[theme music playing]

♪ Oh, child, come on
in Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with
the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

Tel Dor.

We're almost there,
just up ahead.

This is only the beginning.

I have no idea how I'm
going to approach Kafni.

You may not have to.

Thomas, I'll talk to them.

- Let's stay back here. We'll take care of it.
- No, this is mine to do.

I can't let you
shield me from this.

We'll just ask them what they
want and report back. Okay?

It's all right, Zee.

Thomas, I will go with you.

We will face them together.

Where is she?

Where is my daughter?

Thomas, stop.

You will proceed no further.

- You are forbidden to enter this town.
- Kafni, we are in mourning with you.

We grieve, but we
are not dangerous.

Then why is my daughter dead?

- Dead.
- I'm so sorry.

- I'm so sorry.
- You've already k*lled me, Thomas.

And then you went
and k*lled her.

You did this.

I blame myself.

I'm sorry. I failed
in my promise.

Thomas loved Ramah
dearly, Kafni.

- And she loved him.
- What are your words worth?

You are a fraud and a devil.

Deceptive sorcerer.

The biggest disappointment in my life is
that I didn't teach my daughter better.

She had a brilliant mind
until you cast a spell on her.

Ramah was m*rder*d
by a Roman, Kafni.

And you don't speak for her.

She loved Jesus.

She felt her calling
was an honor.

And she wanted everyone to
know that, including you.

[♪omber music playing]

Let's go.

I curse you...

and your followers.

We grieve with you.

I will spread the
word far and wide.

As long as blood
runs in my veins,

I will move mountains to
expose you, Jesus of Nazareth!

I will make sure the world knows
you are a liar and a m*rder*r!

You have made your
feelings clear.

We'll leave you in peace.

You will see me again.

And when you do, it will
be the last thing you see!

I said no more.

[♪omber, mysterious
music playing]

[music continue♪]

[inaudible dialogue]

[music continue♪]

[inaudible dialogue]

[inaudible dialogue]

[music continue♪]

[inaudible dialogue]

[indistinct chatter]

Eden, when does Zee get
here with the fruit?

Mm. Soon.

That's what I would have said.

Hmm. Soon.

Are you sleeping any better?

Better than I was a few months
ago, but still not great.

You know, when we
had our loss...

it took me a few months also.

Eden even longer.

How are your prayers?

I do them...

but it's hard to
mean them sometimes.

"When I remember God, I moan;

when I meditate,
my spirit faints.

"You hold my eyelids open."

What about leaving?

Even, you know, just for a
short time, getting away?

I just can't.

It's too painful to be here.

And yet...

there's no place I'd rather be.

- Fresh fruit from the market.
- Yay.

Finally.

- At least you're back to eating, no?
- [Matthew] Is it fresh?

- [Andrew] There you go.
- Come on.

Thank you, Zee.

And for you, garlic,
onion, and malva.

Yes. Perfect. You can
set it on the counter.

- Is it fresh?
- Other one.

- [Andrew] Is it fresh?
- This?

- I pick this one.
- [Andrew] Would you like to try some?

- Thank you.
- You're welcome.

- Sweet. Mm.
- [Philip] Sweet. It's a good one.

- Philip, how do you eat a pomegranate?
- Pomegranate? Oh, you need a knife.

Oh.

So...

you start at the top and
cut off the head, okay?

Yeah, you can just cut it in half and
pick the seeds out with your fingers.

Cut the pomegranate in half?

- Were you raised by wolves?
- You might say that.

[Andrew] Peter.

They did their best.

- Did they?
- Don't start, you two.

So look. Here, there
are five sections.

You're supposed to score through the white
parts and then peel it open, like orange peel.

- No one ever taught me that.
- Oh. Case in point.

So you've been wasting
pomegranate seeds your whole life?

Am I on trial here?

All the pomegranate seeds
being wasted our whole lives.

What did I do? I'm just
trying to help you.

- Flower.
- [Nathanael] Oh.

Of course, the two brothers
team up against me.

- [Philip] Seeds can be wasted.
- [Nathanael] Keep it coming.

- [Peter] Just one seed.
- [Andrew] You wasting your seeds?

- The precious pomegranates.
- [Nathanael] What? I'm just saying?

- Here's to that.
- No. No.

- But may be helpful.
- [Peter] God forbid the pomegranate.

- No.
- No, no, no. God forbid the pomegranate.

Oh.

- What are they on about in there?
- Oh, I don't know.

Wanting to be right
about something as usual.

Or for someone else to have been
getting it wrong their whole lives?

Yes. Yes.

- How did you know?
- What, you're saying you haven't noticed a pattern?

Ah. This is true. They are pretty
consistent with these patterns.

- Mm.
- [chuckle♪]

You remember when it was
just the three of us?

Do you ever miss those days?

Well, I could say we did get
to spend more time with you.

But to wish that others would not
get this gift by joining us also...

It would be selfish.

[Jesu♪] Mm.

Feels like a lifetime ago.

One we can't go back to.

Where will we go?

Why do you ask?

We can't stay in
Capernaum forever.

No.

No, we can't.

Let no one underestimate
your wisdom, Little James.

Who am I to say?

But...

it doesn't seem so much like
wisdom to me as much as...

a feeling.

In my gut.

Mm.

A good feeling?

I can't describe it.

Try.

Oh...

Lately, I...

- I don't even want to say it.
- I'll do it.

You've been saying
things about, um...

"When you're gone..."

more frequently.

You've told us that...

you must suffer many things at the
hands of the elders and chief priests.

Those people are
not in Capernaum.

They're not.

So that means that we'll
be on the move soon.

Sorry, "when" did you say?

Soon...

It's true.

We will head south
toward Jerusalem.

We will leave Capernaum.

The time has come.

Things will no longer be simple.

Sorry to interrupt.

It's all right.

Eden sent me to ask about the mint
and lemon. She's ready to make the...

Here.

What happened?

Is the former publicanus,
Matthew, at this residence?

- Who's asking?
- Praetor Gaius.

One moment.

You don't think Gaius intends to bring
Matthew back for tax collection, eh?

I suppose we could ask.

I'm gonna go with Matthew.
I can talk to Gaius.

All right. Come straight
back. We're taking a trip.

Publicanus.

- No one has called me that in a long time.
- Please come with us.

It's all right, Matthew.
Peter will join you.

It's all right.

Is Matthew in trouble?

I don't think so.

Thaddeus, Andrew, Zee, go tell the
others to gather their belongings.

Prepare for a journey.

- Can you stop fidgeting with that?
- I'm sweating.

- Can I wipe my brow with it?
- Just try to stop looking nervous.

You look nervous.

I'm curious, not scared.

You know, Gaius isn't the same person who
shouted after you when you left the tax booth.

Maybe he's having trouble
recruiting new tax collectors.

- Pays well, but you lose everything else.
- Well, you think he's looking for tips?

Honestly, you would know better than me.
You've been spending more time with him lately.

- And beyond.
- Beyond?

It's nothing.

- Why do people do that?
- What?

When someone says that something's nothing,
it almost always means that it's something.

It's very odd.

When they say it's nothing, it usually
means it's nothing for you to worry about.

Or it's none of your business. Or
it's not a good time to talk about it.

Then why not say any
one of those things?

It would eliminate a lot
of confusion in this world.

It would.

It's just that, uh...

It's just what?

Nothing.

Praetor.

[both] Praetor.

Please.

Please sit.

Thank you for coming.

You couldn't send word of what
the nature of this summoning was?

Absolutely not.

Uh...

"Peter."

Am I pronouncing that right?
I have it written down here.

Someone brought it
to my attention.

Close. It's a little softer.

Peter.

Peter.

- You're a seafaring man.
- Was, yeah.

Do you still know
how to tie the knots?

- When the sky is red at dawn...
- We would expect there to be storms.

When you look south to Jerusalem, there
is a very, very red sky this morning.

The edicts coming out of Judea
from your religious leaders

are serious, more
threatening than before.

How threatening?

The Pharisees here are
watching your every move,

actively trying to trap your
rabbi in his words or actions.

And I am telling you,
they want him gone.

Gone?

Silenced.

Censored.

Worse.

- I don't know. You tell me. What is the precedent?
- I don't know. Maybe...

the Baptizer?

No, the Pharisees
didn't k*ll John.

Herod is one of your people, a client
king, and Galilee is his jurisdiction.

The point is there's someone
watching both of us very closely.

Me and you?

Me, this whole town, and
especially your group.

Atticus Aemilius Pulcher,
a cohortes urbanae,

has taken a special
interest in Jesus,

and he is monitoring
activity in Capernaum.

You know, when we left the house,
Jesus told me to prepare for a journey.

Maybe that's why. He's
no longer safe here.

I'm under pressure to crush
any religious extremism

or fringe uprising
leaders swiftly...

and lethally.

- If I don't or if I even hesitate...
- [Peter] What?

They'll fire you?

I didn't expect you to get a
taste for power so quickly.

Worse. They might suspect
that I believe in him.

Okay.

- Wait.
- Jesus will be safe here, I can assure you that.

But only if he
keeps a low profile.

That's not gonna happen.

A year ago, sure, he was
forbidding people he healed

from telling anyone about it,
but now it can't be contained.

- Were you being serious?
- I'm not telling you to stop his mission.

Just do it outside the city limits,
okay? That's all I'm asking.

For his safety and yours.

Now, I need you to
work with me on this.

Praetor...

do you believe in him?

I...

I'm not even sure
what that means.

Why haven't you gone to see
him if you are considering?

I have seen enough.

I have seen what he does for those who
can be of no help to him whatsoever.

I have heard him say words that both
unscramble a lifetime of mystery

and fill me with questions.

The fact that I have seen him
is why I'm doing everything...

Has your son gotten any better?

- What?
- It was a while ago. He was very ill.

Did he get better?

- No.
- Son? Something is wrong with Marius?

Then why haven't you
brought him to see Jesus?

You say you've seen him do things
for people who can be no help to him,

so why wouldn't he do this for you who are
risking your life and career to protect him?

He doesn't need my protection.

I just don't want his mission
delayed by posturing and infighting.

You know, some believe his
mission is to overthrow Rome.

- I'm sorry. Why does Jesus need to see Marius?
- Ah. Matthew.

I made a mistake that resulted
in a child born not of my wife.

Doesn't that happen to
your people all the time?

I apologize, but, uh...

at the risk of an
even greater offense,

sometimes people are inclined to perceive
judgment because they feel guilty.

I feel guilty for
betraying my wife.

Do you feel repentant?

For that, yes.

And I love my son.

- And he's ill?
- For a long time, yes.

- Why haven't you gone to see Jesus, Gaius?
- I know you've thought about this.

- You told your family about a Jewish doctor.
- Because I'm not worthy.

Neither was I.

Neither was I.

- You do not know the things I have done.
- You know, that's exactly what I said.

- I'm an outsider.
- One of his favorite kinds of people.

Someone who's not Jewish?

[both] Yeah.

Those dividing lines
don't matter to him.

- It's part of the reason why he's in so much trouble.
- Gaius...

do you believe he's from God?

[crying]

I know it must
seem intimidating.

Uh, there, there, dominus.

There's no need to be afraid.

I do believe.

You're happy crying?

I know he can heal my son.

Will you let me ask him?

Yeah. Yeah, I suppose, yeah.

Okay. Quick.

Okay. All right. That's enough. We
haven't even gone to see him yet.

That's a great point.

Why are we just standing here?
My son is as good as healed.

Let's go.

Did he just convert?

Yeah.

James, John.

- Jesus says to gather your things for a journey.
- We'll be ready.

- Where's the rendezvous?
- The usual spot. I'll come by here first.

[♪alome] Boys.

This is the time.

We will see. We'll find
the right time, we promise.

Listen. While it was the greatest
day of my life when Jesus called you,

I know that being with the Messiah and doing
his work has also been a weight to carry.

But I've never seen the two of you closer than
these past six months. I never want it to end.

It has been a quieter time.

John, you've always been
the more careful one.

But he has deep affection for you,
and there's no harm in simply asking.

- We've talked about this.
- I know, I know. "Ask and it will be given you."

Yes.

- We will, Eema.
- On this journey?

- Yes. Yes.
- Let's go over it one more time.

And don't forget about you sitting on
his right and left hand in his glory...

- Yes, we know, Eema.
- We've got it, Eema.

Good.

What are you waiting
for? Go get your things.

Well, I'm the first Jew to willingly
lead a Roman soldier to his house.

And I'm the first
soldier to be led.

You know, we should stop looking so
happy or we'll both get in trouble.

Wait here. I'll make
sure he's inside.

Peter. I'm realizing we're bringing a Roman to
see Jesus and he didn't give us permission...

I think by now we've both seen enough to
know that this is what Jesus would want.

[indistinct chatter]

Gaius, this way.

Praetor Gaius.

Lord.

My servant boy is lying
paralyzed at home.

He has been sick for so long, and now
he is suffering terribly, near death.

Take me to him.

- Lord...
- You call him "Lord"?

I am not worthy to have
you come into my home.

And I know you would not be
comfortable as a Jew in a Roman's home.

But you only need to say the
word and he will be healed.

Not worthy?

The truth...

about the child,
he's actually my son.

I am so ashamed.

I shouldn't even be
asking you, but I am.

And I know you can do it.

[Peter] Master...

I never thought I'd
say this, but...

he is worthy to have
you do this for him.

He loves our people.
He has helped us.

I know.

Do not trouble yourself.

You can heal him from a distance
with only a word of command.

I also have authority
with men under me.

If I say to one, "Go," he goes.

If I say to another,
"Come," he comes.

Anything you command in
this world will happen.

I know it.

Even this.

Stand up.

- What?
- Rise.

Did you all hear this man?

Truly, I tell you, with no one in
Israel have I found such faith.

I was rejected in
my own hometown,

and I'm threatened by the
religious leaders of my own people,

and yet this man...

a Gentile, has more bold confidence
in what he believes that I can do

than anyone I have
yet encountered.

Go. It has been done for you
according to your belief.

- Thank you.
- Thank you.

You have brightened my day to
encounter this kind of faith.

Yes.

What?

[John scoff♪]

What happened?

Gaius had faith that Jesus could heal his
servant without even coming to his house.

We know he can do that.

But such faith from a Gentile?

Exactly.

Let's do it now. Let's ask him.

- It will change everything.
- Mm-hm.

Ask what?

Yeah.

- Rabbi?
- Yes, Big James?

Remember when you said that we could ask
for anything and it would be given us?

Knock, and the door
will be opened.

I don't remember that.

Um...

That was the right sermon. I thought
Eema told me it was the right...

I'm kidding. I remember, yeah.

Oh. Of course. Yeah.

- We knew that.
- Yeah.

Um, well, we have something
to ask, and for you to do.

I'm eager to hear it.

Would you...

grant for us...

to sit at your right hand and
your left hand in your kingdom?

- What does that mean?
- Shh.

So...

You don't know what
you are asking.

[John] What?

Rabbi.

Three cucumbers and
one cabbage. Yes.

I'm gonna take that wineskin.

- The big one?
- Yes, the big one.

Fine choice, sir.

[Gaiu♪] Yes.

How much for these two?

Okay, great.

Thank you, sir.

Thank you.

No, no. It's okay.

Rabbi, what's wrong?

Are you able to drink the
cup that I would drink,

or be baptized with the baptism
with which I am baptized?

- Yes, we are able. We are the Sons of Thunder.
- We'll do anything for you.

- You don't even know what that means either.
- Tell us. We'll do anything.

It means that when
we go to Jerusalem,

the Son of Man will be delivered over
to the chief priests and scribes,

and they will condemn him to death and
they will deliver him over to the Gentiles.

And they will mock him and spit
on him and flog him and k*ll him.

And after three
days, he will rise.

- Who are you talking about?
- I thought the Son of Man was you.

And you will drink
the cup that I drink,

and be baptized with the baptism
with which I am baptized.

But you do not want that now.

You are not ready for it.

To sit at my right hand and my
left, it is not mine to grant...

but it is for those for whom it
has been prepared by my Father.

You have no business
asking what you did.

No offense, Nathanael, but
we were here long before you.

- How could you ask it? And in front of all of us.
- Now, ruling positions, high seats of honor.

Oh, look who's talking.

- Hey, I didn't ask for it. He gave it to me.
- You don't even know what "the rock" means.

Stop.

All of you have been granted
leadership and authority.

All of you make up the foundation
on which I'll build my church.

But you are thinking like the Gentiles, whose
rulers lord their authority over their inferiors.

That is not how
my kingdom works.

I have told you this before...

and you still don't get it.

This has to change...

because their way is not
how it will be with you.

Do you hear me?

- Yes.
- Yes.

- Yes.
- Yes, Rabbi.

Whoever would be great among
you must be your servant,

and whoever would be first
among you must be your sl*ve.

Because even the Son of Man came
not to be served but to serve,

and to give his life
as a ransom for many.

A ransom for who?

Who is being held
hostage, Rabbi?

Go.

Continue south to Jerusalem.

- Rabbi, do you need any...?
- I will catch up.

- I can stay with you.
- I said, I'll catch up, Zee.

[Livia] Gaius.

- You're not going to believe it.
- I do believe it.

What?

What?

I already know.

Daddy, look.

Shalom.

- What?
- It's something that my friends say.

It means peace, wholeness.

Okay?

You are whole again.

Sha...

Sha...

Okay.

Shalom.

- [Mariu♪] Shalom.
- [Ivo] Shalom.

- Shalom.
- [Gaiu♪] Okay. Say it twice.

[both] Shalom. Shalom.

That's it. Well done.

Shalom.

For my sides are
filled with burning...

there is no soundness
in my flesh.

I am feeble and crushed.

I groan because of the
tumult of my heart.

Oh, Lord...

all my longing is before you...

my sighing is not
hidden from you.

My heart throbs...

my strength fails me...

and the light of my eyes,
it also has gone from me.

My friends and companions...

stand aloof from my plague...

and my nearest
kin stand far off.

- [Tamar] Yes. You have it?
- [Mary] Mm-hm.

Thank you.

There we go.

Zeb, we're ready
for the first stone.

Ah. I love this part.

The first press, sacred
unto Adonai alone.

[♪obbing]

[theme music playing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
