04x03 - Moon to Blood

[whispering] Forgive me, Lord.

[♪obbing]

He has to eat something.

He'll die.

As if the grief were not enough?

It is repentance for the manner
in which the child was conceived.

Three days, maybe four,
I understand, but six?

Can a person live without
food for six days?

If anyone can, it would be him.

He has probably gone longer when
he was on the run from Saul.

He was a teenager.

If the king of Israel starves
on our watch, we'll be ex*cuted.

This regime has slaughtered
people for less.

Come on.

Forgive me.

- Your Majesty, please take some nourishment.
- Has the child been restored?

Not yet,

but the doctor says he
is fighting, my lord.

Then leave me to my prayers.

Bathsheba needs you.

- The child needs you.
- I said leave.

What is needed...

is my repentance.

Doctor?

He's gone, Your Highness.

[♪cream♪] No!

[Bathsheba crying]

No!

What are the right words?

There are none.

I'm ready.

Why are we getting ready
for a dinner I cannot eat?

How can you eat at
a time like this?

[David] While the child was
still alive, I fasted and wept.

As you should be now.

[David] Would that
bring him back again?

I asked of our God,

whether he might be gracious
to us and let our child live.

My prayer was not answered.

Why not?

Why some prayers and not others?

I don't know.

I've never known.

And still you worship.

[David] I do.

Through sorrow and
joy, and sorrow again.

This is the meaning of faith.

But it cannot
bring our son back.

No.

We can't.

But sooner or later, we will
both go to that same end.

He will not return to us,

but we will go to him.

The separation...
is just for now.

For a time.

A time.

It could be a long time.

It could be tomorrow.

This is the way of all things.

[theme music playing]

♪ Oh, child, come on
in Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with
the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

Dominus?

- He just walked right out.
- What is this? Who put this here?

It's obstructing the
street, you filthy animals.

It smells like a
sewer on a hot day.

Oh, wait! It is a hot
day. And this is a sewer.

Dominus, your helmet.

At least carry your
sword, dominus!

Look at this dog! Unattended,
unchained, spreading disease.

Dominus. Can you help me?

And this dog. What is
your permanent address?

- I don't have...
- Of course, you don't.

Why...? Why are you here?

Messiah is here.

Get off of my street.

- Dominus, he doesn't...
- Get rid of the dog!

Both of them.

Hey!

Are you up to date
on your taxes?

Tell me the truth. You know I can
find out quickly if I want to.

And if you lie...

- I'm...
- I... I... I... You're what?

- Making payments on an overdue balance.
- Ah.

This...

is one of them.

You! Why are you not
selling from a booth?

Do you have a permit?

- He did not say what he was looking for?
- No, primi. Wouldn't even take his helmet.

In the bucket. Make
it so. Now. Now. Yes.

Hades and Styx...

Move along! Nothing to see
here. There's some over there.

And this here. Can't you smell it? I
don't know how you people live like this.

[Gaiu♪] Dominus.

- Is everything all right?
- Nothing is all right, Gaius.

Look around you.

If you have an order to give,
dominus, we will carry it out.

Rome assigned me to this hellhole because they
thought I couldn't hack it in the bigger cities.

But, oh, they changed their tune

when my tribute record posted
among the highest in the region.

Now, my ledgers are in the red.

I told you to make life difficult
for the followers of Jesus.

We have enforced curfews
and implemented...

Taxes! Taxes were the only leg
I had to stand on in the empire,

and those vulgar
pilgrims have cut it off!

What can be done, dominus?

I'm done giving
you ideas, Gaius.

No more conversations, no
more of me mentoring you.

Results only.

The tent city will shrink by
ten cubits a day starting now.

Say it back to me, primi.

I gave you that title
and I can strip it away.

- Ten cubits a day.
- Ten cubits a day, what?

- The tent city will shrink by that much.
- Or?

- Or I'll...
- Or you'll be a centurion again.

Maybe something even lower, depending
on how I feel when I wake up that day.

Yes, dominus.

I'm not going to lose
my job or my future

because I hastily promoted some
Germanic tax collector escort.

- Oh, hello.
- Are you being chased?

It's madness out
there. The pilgrims.

Come, sit.

I was just telling your eema
how quickly word has spread.

The synagogues of Gennesaret and Bethsaida
sent in orders for anointing oil.

Ramah said just yesterday she got
an inquiry from the rabbis at Cana.

Mm-hm.

We're going to have to buy another
olive grove just to keep up.

- Is there something in your ears?
- What?

You aren't listening.

- Yes, we are.
- We are.

You said you're getting
more orders for olive oil.

You sound overjoyed.

- That's good for you. We're glad.
- What do you want us to do?

- Jump up and down and dance?
- "Us"? "We"? I thought you were in a fight.

Why are you bringing that
up? It never came to blows.

- You know what I mean.
- How do you want us to be?

You say it's a shame because we disagree.
Now it's suspicious because we're unified.

I may be getting old, but
my eyes are still good.

- I see you boys.
- See what?

You're hiding something.

- No, we are not!
- We are not.

I know Jesus is teaching
you important things,

but apparently how to keep
a secret is not one of them.

Rabbi has asked us to
keep many things a secret.

- And we have.
- Yes.

Here's some free advice.

Next time someone says
you're hiding something,

don't be defensive and howl
that you aren't. Dead giveaway.

Is there no more wine? [♪coff♪]

What happened on the trip
to Caesarea Philippi?

Jesus gave Simon a new
name. Who wants more wine?

Peter. "The rock."

Are you happy now?

I'm not anything.
Just confused maybe.

"Rock."

Meaning "hard, stable"?

I'm not saying I would ever disagree with
Jesus, but that doesn't really sound like Simon.

Sure.

He said...

like a stone for the
foundation of a house.

Hmm. So then what
are your new names?

This is ridiculous.

You've done more for Jesus
than Simon, fivefold.

Five?

Those rows you
planted in Samaria?

The notes you're keeping
of his words and deeds?

Matthew is recording too.

And controlling the
crowd at the sermon.

Staying behind to wait for Simon when
he was full of bitterness and doubt

over what happened to Eden.

That's four.

- Leaving your jobs to follow him?
- Everyone did that, Eema.

Regardless, you boys deserve
real standing and blessing.

Salome...

Zeb, this is important.

When people see Jesus, our boys
should always be right by his side.

If that's what Jesus wants,
then that's what will happen.

- That's not what he said in the Korazim Plateau.
- What?

You don't remember?

"Ask and it will
be given to you."

Seek and you will find.

- Knock and it will be opened to you."
- "Knock and it will be opened to you."

"For everyone who asks, receives,
and the one who seeks, finds.

And to the one who knocks,
it will be opened."

We can really just
ask him anything?

What else could "ask and it
will be given to you" mean?

I think he means when you are
seeking first the Kingdom of God.

This is about the
Kingdom of God.

Kingdoms need officers,
authorities, people of influence.

Sounds like Jesus has begun
handing out titles and roles,

starting with Simon.

Don't you want influence?

Don't you want the blessing that
comes from being closest to God?

I don't want you to be
last or far from God.

And if you don't ask for this authority
now, others will get in front of you.

- I need to explain this to you?
- Eema is right.

If we can ask for anything, so
long as we seek first the kingdom,

so can everyone else.

I don't know. The group
has been doing so well.

The grieving for the
Baptizer has been complete.

Uh, Peter forgave Matthew for
everything that happened between them.

- Simon forgave Matthew?
- Peter.

Yes. Yes. Hugs and everything.

- That really does deserve a name change.
- Don't change the subject.

We just don't want to
cause a stir, Eema.

What if it casts a shadow over
Thomas and Ramah's engagement?

I could never do that to Thomas.

If you're going to sit idly by and do
nothing, maybe I'll ask him myself.

- Eema, please do not do that!
- Please do not ask that.

Salome, really?

You've got this.

I'm putting an extra blanket on top so
she thinks it's just for a picnic, huh?

Why am I so nervous?

Just breathe.

You're gonna do great, huh?

There, three more. I am nearly done
with this, Mary. What about you?

Just these two, I think this
is enough for both of them.

Okay. We'll add those to
the rest of the order.

Shalom.

- Boker tov, my friends.
- [Tamar] Boker tov.

To what do we owe the pleasure
of your company, John?

Important business.

This is important business.

- Well...
- [Tamar] Finishing this one up

and then add the
rest of the order.

[Mary] This is the last of it.

Ramah.

I was wondering if we could...

- Walk.
- go for a short walk?

Oh. Um...

We're very busy. There's so
many orders coming in and...

Please?

Nathanael!

[Nathanael] What?

Whose turn is it?

Ah, they're all
gone. I'll do it.

[Nathanael] Whoa, whoa, whoa.

John, no. You're an
unreliable chaperone.

What? Unreliable?

Overly permissive.

- So whose turn is it?
- I don't know. We normally cast lots.

- Can you do it?
- I would,

except...

I don't want to.

Andrew!

The arrangements for the
quiddushin are nearly all in place.

John has agreed to be
the witness on my side.

Jesus has agreed to serve
as witness on your side

and as Rabbi to sign the ketubah
confirming a unique circumstance.

There's one thing left.

The object of value.

- I thought we agreed that...
- I know. I know.

But... I wanted to
get you something.

I actually knew what I wanted it to
be back when we just worked together,

before the wedding at Cana.

I traded my way up
from a cinnamon loaf,

to a fish, to a lantern, to a
bookshelf, barter after barter,

all the way up to...

A sundial.

Thomas.

It's perfect.

For our future home.

[Andrew coughing]

Sorry. [coughing]

Something in my throat.

It's beautiful.

And you knew for years?

Whenever we would work together,
I would lose track of time,

- which is not like me.
- No, it's not.

[both chuckling]

When we would have a conversation
on the road or after an event...

it was like time stopped.

I couldn't tell afterwards if it
had been ten minutes or an hour.

I think I felt the same,

but held back my feelings because I had so
little control over who Abba would choose.

You don't have to
be afraid anymore.

Because we'll be together
until the end of time.

And we'll have this to keep
track of the hours in between.

I don't know what to say.

So don't.

Actually, I, um...

I do remember something
I wanted to say.

When all of this
started to become real,

after we spoke with Jesus
on the way to Caesarea,

I visited with Eden...

to see if she had any advice.

Si... Uh...

Peter and I are very
different people.

You are.

But marriage is marriage,

and you do follow
the same rabbi.

And he's called you to a
very special kind of life.

Yes.

I want us to learn from what happened
to Simon and Eden with their baby.

[Akiva] ...as a heretic and a blasphemer
to be challenged and questioned.

This edict...

prompted by reports of what was a most
impassioned speech by Rabbi Shammai

to the great Sanhedrin
in Jerusalem,

identifies Jesus of
Nazareth, by name,

as a heretic and a blasphemer
to be challenged and questioned,

and if caught in blasphemy,

to be taken for questioning
to the High Council.

He is known to be in
or near Capernaum.

I myself witnessed him in the town
square performing sorcery and necromancy

and publicly self-identifying
as the Anointed One.

He was rude and dismissive, and every
bit as dangerous as this edict warns.

Every one of you is
to be on high alert.

Jerusalem thinks
little of Capernaum,

but we know more than any other place
in Israel about this person of interest.

Oh, I appreciate this.

I don't think I'm hung... Even more. I don't
think I'm hungry enough to eat all of it.

Every time you preach, you're exhausted
and immediately asking for food afterwards.

So we just thought
we'd get ahead of it.

I'm happy to test
out your theory.

- Rabbi, why are you preaching today?
- Hmm?

Because the
circumstances demand it.

- Which ones?
- There's growing tension in Capernaum.

The pilgrims, our
Pharisees, even the Romans.

And I must ensure that they are
listening to the right voice.

They are being led poorly.

Do we literally just come right out and
ask to sit at his left and right hand?

I mean, where did Eema
even come up with that?

I think she was referring to how Bathsheba sat
on the right hand of King Solomon on his throne.

Wasn't that when she was
trying to get someone k*lled?

Yes. David wrote, "The
Lord says to my Adonai,

'Sit by my right hand until I make
your enemies your footstool.'"

- We're not trying to k*ll anyone.
- What if it reminds him of that?

Okay. Why don't we
just ask for seats?

No, no. But then...

- But then it could be any seats.
- Like the back of a synagogue.

We're overthinking this.

Tonight, Jesus will be feeling good about
his sermon, and we can ask him then.

If he has any questions, we can
clarify. It'll be a conversation.

- Just not in front of anybody.
- Absolutely not in front of anybody. Shh.

What are you
looking for? A lion?

Why would I be
looking for a lion?

You just seem nervous.

Not about a lion.

Okay, fine.

Peter, do you think
this is a good idea?

- What?
- This sermon.

When I invited Gaius,

he seemed very alarmed that we were
planning a public gathering of any kind.

Yeah. With all the heat coming in
from both Rome and the Pharisees,

I think it's a terrible idea.

But what can he do, huh?

He is who he is. We can't
run away from every conflict.

Besides, I didn't think a lot of
things Jesus did were good ideas, huh?

But those things
turned out, huh?

Hmm?

- Shula!
- Master!

You weren't expecting to see me?

It'll never get old.

It's just that, um...

What?

We overheard that there's been
some sort of edict from Jerusalem.

That's where they
usually come from, hmm?

About you.

- By name?
- If anyone catches you in blasphemy,

they are to have you
taken to the Sanhedrin.

There's more.

Rabbi Akiva said that anyone who
confesses Jesus as the Christ

is to be put out
of the synagogue.

Who did you hear that from?

- Has it been enforced?
- It doesn't matter.

I will be direct with
the Pharisees today.

They've gone too far.

How long has this man been here?

It's Uzziah.

We've been friends since
my malady started, but...

he's been blind since birth.

- Big James.
- Yes, Rabbi?

Draw up some water
from the well.

- Would you introduce me to your friend?
- What are you...? You can't.

I know that look.

Why not?

It's Shabbat.

That'll make this more fun.

Uzziah, this is
Jesus, the teacher.

- The one who healed Shula and me!
- He knows, Barnaby.

- Barnaby, he's not deaf. He's blind.
- Oh.

Shabbat shalom, Uzziah.

Shabbat shalom.

[man] Rabbi.

Please, answer this for us.

Who sinned, Uzziah or his
parents, that he was born blind?

- You're a friend of his?
- Yes. And we've wondered for years.

It's not that this man
sinned or his parents,

but that the work of God
might be displayed in him.

Listen carefully.

We must work the works of Him
who sent me while it is day.

Night is coming when
no one can work.

And as long as I
am in the world...

I am the light of the world.

We cannot work at night?

We have limited time
on earth, Matthew.

I have limited time.

Let's not argue the
sins of the past.

We've got light to give.

Excuse me. Excuse me.

This might feel strange...

but it will be worth it.

Put it there.

Hold still.

[♪obbing]

[crowd murmuring]

Now wash right
here to your right.

That's it.

[gasp♪]

[crowd gasping]

[Jesu♪] How does it look?

I got you.

I got you.

Rivka!

- Shalom.
- Shalom.

I heard Jesus was here.

Rivka! Look!

Uzziah?

Uzziah, what happened?

The man who used to sit and
beg had blurry white eyes.

- That's because he was blind!
- You, come with me!

- Now?
- [Josiah] Yes, now.

- To the synagogue.
- I can't think of a better place.

Thank you. Thank you.

They want to see me
at the synagogue.

I'm sure they do.

Tell my parents what happened
and that I'm at the synagogue.

Absolutely! Right away!

Where do they live?

How would I know? I was blind
the whole time I knew him.

We'll ask around. Let's go.

Do another miracle!

[crowd] Yes!

That's not how this works.

But I have much
to share with you.

So listen carefully.
Everybody, come closer.

He's preaching in the square.
Come quickly. Come, come, come.

Shh. Don't draw attention.

Where's Rabbi Akiva?

- What's so urgent?
- The teacher, Jesus of Nazareth.

He's here in Capernaum right
now. He just healed this man.

- How can you be certain it's him?
- I've met him before.

Rabbi Akiva, there you are.

Jesus of Nazareth is here.

He just healed this man of
blindness in the marketplace.

What do you mean?

- It's Shabbat.
- [Josiah] I know.

You were blind?

Was, yes.

How did you receive your sight?

He put mud on my eyes,

and I wash,

and I see.

- Sorcery and dark arts.
- That's exactly what I thought.

- We have not seen him do sorcery.
- This man has broken Sabbath.

Broken bread with Gentiles and
made false claims and heresies.

- He is not from God!
- If he's such a sinner, how can he do these signs?

You. What do you say about him?

He's obviously a prophet.
Look what he did to me.

Uzziah. Are you...?

Your eyes.

- Can you see me?
- Yes.

[laughing]

- This is your son?
- [man] Yes.

- And he was born blind?
- [man] Yes.

- How can he see?
- They told us the teacher from the...

Well, we know he's our
son and he was born blind.

But how he sees and
who opened his eyes?

We do not know.

Have you asked
him? He is of age.

- You need to tell me how he did this.
- I told you and you wouldn't listen.

All I know is this
man must be from God.

Never since the world began has it been heard
that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind.

He must be the Christ, or
he couldn't have done this.

No.

If all of this is true, give
glory only to Adonai for this.

This teacher from
Nazareth is a sinner.

Whether he is a
sinner, I do not know.

One thing I do know...

that though I was blind...

now I see.

You were born in utter sin

and you preach at us
in our own synagogue?

You know the edict.

Anyone who blasphemes by calling
this sinner Christ, he is banned.

No, please. He doesn't know
what he's saying. Please.

- We just know he was born blind.
- Out, now!

We have to get to him right now.

[woman] Blessed is the
womb that bore you.

Blessed rather is the one who
hears the Word of God and keeps it.

For whoever does the will of my father in
heaven is my brother and sister and mother.

Some of us weren't here when
you healed the blind man.

- Show us another sign.
- [man] Yes, a sign.

I know you want more signs and
wonders so you can believe for sure.

And I have done them.

But it is an evil generation
that seeks a sign.

And when all you seek
are signs and wonders,

no sign will be given to you,
except the sign of Jonah.

For as Jonah became a sign
to the people of Nineveh,

so will the Son of Man
be to this generation.

The queen of the south will
rise up at the judgment

with the men of this
generation and condemn them,

for she came from the ends of the
earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon.

And behold...

something greater
than Solomon is here.

You would proclaim yourself
greater than Solomon?

What right would the Queen
of Sheba have to judge us?

Ah. Rabbi Akiva, Rabbi
Josiah. You're back.

Are you wanting to better
understand my teaching?

Perhaps. You heard
our questions.

Well, let me make it more plain.

The men of Nineveh will rise at the judgment
with this generation and condemn it,

for they repented at
the preaching of Jonah,

and behold, something
greater than Jonah is here.

The men of Nineveh were evil.

Yes, but even they were qualified
to judge this generation

because at least they
repented when Jonah preached.

Is anyone writing this down?

It must be recorded
word for word

so it can be held
up in the Sanhedrin

and exposed for the contemptible
insolence even his followers espouse.

You've interrupted him
enough. We want to hear more.

[crowd] Yes!

Ah.

So it's infectious.

Like a disease, this heretic's arrogance
and insubordination spreads quickly

among Capernaum's
uneducated class.

Go, tell Quintus
what's happening

and pass along a message
directly from me.

[whispering indistinctly]

I cannot leave this situation.

You will get him that message.

If you serve him, you will.

Alert Quintus that
there is a... gathering.

And let him know Atticus
passes along this message...

He is no heretic. We just
saw him do a miracle.

Ah, yes, Nazarene.

I just spoke to a man who
claims you healed his blindness.

Today.

On Shabbat!

- Is there a question coming or...?
- I was told you put mud on his eyes.

Where did you get mud,

knowing you're not supposed to make
healing concoctions on Shabbat?

It was easy. I just
spit on the dirt.

What? You touched
his face with filth?

Cleanliness.

- That's what you're focused on?
- You claim to be a rabbi, to be the son of God,

and you don't honor purity laws even
on the most sacred day of the week?

You Pharisees...

you cleanse the outside
of a cup and the dish,

and then you eat and drink food

that goes into a body that inside
is full of greed and wickedness.

- [crowd murmuring]
- [Jesu♪] You fools!

Did not he who made the
outside make the inside also?

But give as alms those things that are within,
and behold, everything is clean for you.

Are you saying giving alms is more
important than being ritually clean?

I'm saying that your obsession with what is
clean and unclean goes farther than God intended

and does no good for
anybody but yourself.

We tithe everything so the poor can
benefit, down to the smallest plants grown

- in our gardens.
- And to that I say woe to you, Pharisees!

You tithe mint and dill and cumin,
measuring carefully the last speck,

while neglecting what is
actually important of the law.

Justice and mercy
and faithfulness.

You blind guides,

straining out a gnat
while swallowing a camel.

Look at these people.

What have you done to help them?

We have taught them how to
observe God's perfect law,

while you actively defy and break and
encourage others to deviate from it.

All of you! This man is dangerous.
He's leading you astray.

His words bring
hope and healing.

- His words are blasphemous, heretical, and rude!
- Then I say woe to you, Pharisees,

for you love the best seat in the synagogues
and greetings in the marketplaces.

Take it back. Right now.
Recant your insulting words.

Oh, I'm just getting started.

[crowd clamoring]

People are getting trampled.

Please, please, stay calm.

- Okay?
- Everyone, stay peaceful.

Stay close. But don't
let anyone else in.

Matthew!

Gaius! Excuse me.

- Please, just...
- Matthew!

[Matthew] Gaius!

You need to get Jesus out of
here. Tell Simon it's serious.

Okay. Okay.

- Oh. It's Peter now.
- Matthew!

- Dominus.
- I'm busy.

The Pharisees have upset a
peaceful gathering in the square.

It started out peaceful,

- but now the people are protesting the Pharisees.
- No. No more chaos!

- Where's Gaius?
- In the square, dominus,

doing what he can.

He asked me to relay a
message from Cohortes Atticus.

What message?

What you do next will
determine your career.

[crowd shouting]

We're losing control.

- Be calm, everyone.
- James.

Please, just stay back.

Zee! Both of you, get over here.

- Zee, Zee! Zee!
- What?

Relax. Relax.

- Move, move.
- Let them pass.

- Move, move, move.
- [Peter] Let them pass.

We need to make our way out.

- How?
- Zee, keep a perimeter around Jesus.

- That's not gonna be easy.
- Even an arm's length will help. Go.

Thomas, find a door, an open gate, a
shop we can pass through to an alley,

anything to get Jesus out. Then
we'll make our plan, okay? Go!

- You should go.
- No, I'm staying with all of you.

It's not safe.

Mary, will you stay with Ramah?

What do you need?

- Make a path for me.
- I got you.

[Jesu♪] Beware of the leaven of
the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.

Nothing is covered up
that will not be revealed,

or hidden that
will not be known.

Therefore, whatever you have said in
the dark shall be heard in the light,

and whatever you have
whispered in private rooms

shall be proclaimed
on the housetops.

How can you claim
to be the son of God

and create this division
against God's anointed leaders?

Do you think I have come
to give peace on Earth?

No...

but rather division.

You have an
opportunity to listen.

I don't think we're gonna
get to talk to Jesus today.

I don't think so either.

[Atticu♪] Move!

You have not moved a cubit. What
is it you're waiting for, Gaius?

I passed your message along.

- We're just waiting for orders from Quintus.
- Waiting for what?

You are in command, primi.

Has the preacher gotten to you?

[chuckle♪]

Perhaps you want Quintus to take the
fall for another riot. Is that it?

That's it.

I was wrong about you.

If I did, what would
you do with me?

Rome doesn't penalize ambition, primi,
but you are taking a huge gamble.

One of you won't survive this.

Why are you doing this?

[crowd shouting]

To be the son of God against
God's appointed leaders!

Arrest Jesus.

No, dominus.

Arrest Jesus of Nazareth, Gaius.

No.

Arrest Jesus or you will hang.

I will not.

Julius!

Arrest this man for dereliction.

The rest of you,
arrest that man. Now!

[dramatic music playing]

Stay put. Stay back.

Calm down.

[Jesu♪] Again I say...

Master, it's time.

We have to go. Let's go!

This way!

Go! Down the alley, go!

Everyone, get out of the square!
That man is under arrest!

- Go! Go!
- Matthew! Judas!

Let's go! Come on! Go, go, go!

- In the alley, go.
- Stay back. Stay away.

- Stay back!
- What are you doing?

Take your hands off me!

Ramah!

Judas, go! Go! Come on!

- Move, move, move! Nathanael!
- I'm trying!

- [Andrew] Come on!
- Please. Get back!

- [Philip] Nathanael!
- [Andrew] Come on!

[Thoma♪] Ramah!

- Ramah!
- James! Where are you? James!

[all clamoring]

- Where's Mary?
- Where is Ramah?

Come on. Come on.

Mary!

Mary!

Mary!

Ramah!

- Mary, Mary! We have to go.
- But Ramah!

You! Where did Jesus go?

- Ramah!
- Where is he?

- Answer me!
- Ramah!

Where's Jesus?

- Where is he?
- Ramah!

Thomas! Thomas!

Come on. Let's find the others.

Stay back!

Where is he?

Stop!

[♪hout♪]

My love?

Ramah.

- Ramah.
- No! No!

Help!

Somebody help!

We need a doctor!

James! James! No, no, no!

[Mary] Help!

Help!

Zee.

Get him back to the house
without anyone seeing.

I will wait for the others.

Rabbi?

Ramah! Ramah, hold on, hold on.

You're fine. You're fine.
You're fine. You're fine. Ramah.

You remember what I told you?

It's not over.
It's not that time.

Don't go, Ramah. Don't,
please! I can't...

[Ramah] Thomas...

stay with him.

That's all I want.

It's all I...

Ramah?

Ramah?

[♪obbing] Ramah?

Heal her. Fix this.

- Thomas.
- You're here now, Rabbi. Please.

This is a mistake!

[Jesu♪] Thomas.

I'm so sorry.

[inaudible dialogue]

Rabbi, you don't have
to let this happen.

Just take it back.
Just take it back.

She might not be dead yet.

You can heal, right?

It is not her time.

I love you, Thomas.

He loves you.

I'm so sorry.

[gasping]

[♪obbing]

[Thoma♪] No!

[♪obbing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
