05x05 - Because of Me

[breathing heavily]

Rabbi, let me get that for you.

Thank you, James.

Master, please, I would never betray you.

But if there's something
you know that I don't, and it is me,

then tell me, and I'll throw myself
out this window.

Don't do that, Thaddeus.

- Well, what do you want us to do?
- Tell us what to do.

- [Thaddeu♪] We have to do something.
- [Philip] We're brothers.

- I cannot believe this.
- He said, someone around the table.

Yes, I know, Zee.

This is unthinkable.

Who do you think
could even possibly betray this?

Especially now.

Could it be Thomas?

I mean, he's been so angry for so long.

If it's him, he hasn't done
a good job hiding it.

You haven't exactly been happy either.

Careful.

I want him to unite our people,
and show more of his power.

Lazarus' raising did not upset me
the way it did Thomas.

[Philip]
Please, we can't let this tear us apart.

Let's just take a moment.
He needs us now more than ever.

Is it me, Rabbi? Because of Ramah?

What about Ramah?

Is my anger the betrayal?

[goblet thud♪]

You have been faithful
in spite of your anger.

I'm trying.

[Jesu♪] I know.

He said, it has to be
someone in this room.

- Is it you?
- Is it you?

All right, all right.

I can't believe we're having
this discussion,

but let's start
with who it definitely is not.

Peter, who is named "the Rock."

Our leader, and the foundation
of Jesus' church.

So it can't be him.

And I am the one who brought Peter to
Jesus, back when he was still Simon, so...

Yes, and I'm sitting at Jesus' right hand.

Something he rebuked you for asking for.

And yet he just asked me
to stay close to him.

I have been faithful
without demanding a nice seat.

[Jesu♪] Stop it, all of you.

This questioning of who is the greatest.

Foolishness.

at the table, please.

Obsessing over who is the greatest
is something the pagans do.

[whispering inaudibly]

[Jesu♪]
Remember, I've told you this before.

Their kings love to exercise
their authority

and give themselves coveted titles.

That cannot be you.

Rather, let the greatest among you
become as the youngest,

and the leader as the one who serves.

Like I just showed you,
by washing your feet.

- Even though I'm your Rabbi.
- Rabbi, forgive us.

Especially those arguing about titles,
after what you just said.

But, please, give us some grace,

when you just informed us
one of us might betray you.

What are we supposed to do with that?

I am giving you so much to understand.

And I know that it doesn't all
make sense to you.

Some of what I am saying is for today.

Some is for tomorrow.

Some of it is for the distant future.

Please, just trust in the Father's plan,
especially with what is upsetting today.

I know I raised my voice.

But you are the ones who have stayed
with me in my trials thus far.

And I just don't want you consumed
with things that are of this world,

when there is so much more to come
that is greater and more important.

Consider this.

I will assign to you,
as my father assigned to me, a kingdom,

that you may eat and drink
at my table in my kingdom,

and sit on thrones,
judging the Twelve Tribes of Israel.

So enough with the concern about today.

The Twelve Tribes of Israel.

One for each of us?

What about the betrayer of whom you spoke?

He gets to judge one of the tribes too?

You'll sort that out.

Speaking of numbers,
let's continue our Passover.

The ten drops of wine in remembrance
of the ten plagues on Egypt,

and our Exodus from it.

- Blood.
- [apostle♪] Blood.

[all] Frogs.

Gnats.

Flies.

Disease.

Boils.

Hail.

Locusts.

Darkness.

The death of the firstborn.

John, will you begin the Dayenu for us?

Yes, of course, Rabbi.

[clears throat]

If he had brought us out from Egypt,

and not carried out judgments
against them...

[apostle♪] It would have been enough.

['Walk on the Water" playing]

♪ Oh, yeah ♪

♪ Oh, child, come on in ♪

♪ Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[vocalizing]

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[vocalizing]

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[indistinct chatter]

Has the temple commerce been restored?

There is too much damage, and many
of the vendors are refusing to return.

How will they survive?

This is the most important week
of the year for their businesses.

Some have speculated that the merchants
feel insulted over being called swindlers.

Oh, really? They speculated that?

So astute.

Money is more powerful
than words bandied about by radicals.

- Absolutely.
- Of course, I completely agree with you.

We all have setbacks.

- They can be hard to swallow.
- Barnaby.

Jesus said, the tax collectors
and prostitutes are

entering the Kingdom of Heaven
before them.

I know, it stings a bit,
but you'll get over it.

Do you know who you are speaking to?

- Eh...
- This is Ananus,

son of the High Priest Annas.

Oh!

I know how you feel.

My abba chose my brother-in-law over me
to inherit the family farm,

just because I had a limp.

- Silence.
- Insolent fool.

His leg is fine.

It's better than fine now,
thanks to you-know-who.

Shalom.

Jesus's comments about the prostitutes
entering the Kingdom of Heaven before us

are damning.

You don't believe
in the Kingdom of Heaven.

It's the principle of the thing.

Is it ever anything
other than the principle of the thing?

Exactly, Yannan.

He got your name wrong.

I'm starting to think
you've been stirred up over nothing.

We are agents of God.

You must remember,
we are dealing with mortal beings,

full of shame, frustration,
fear of the unknown.

They will be driven back
to the known, the familiar, tradition.

- I agree.
- Jesus' credentials are thin. Ha!

From what I understand,
he's a homeless tradesman.

He can offer them nothing.

[chuckle♪]

Once this euphoria they experienced from
his unhinged screeds against us fades...

[chuckle♪] ... reality will set back in.

- Which is?
- Taxes.

Rome is not going to magically disappear
because he's a compelling wordsmith.

And those taxes
he's telling us to pay aren't going down.

- Right.
- Their memories will return.

The actions of previous people who claimed
to be Messiah have led to m*ssacre,

and loss of loved ones.

All we need to do is nudge them
toward those painful memories.

Fear will motivate them
to police themselves.

[Yanni] Of course.

- Yes, this is wisdom.
- Hmm.

[tense music playing]

My brother-in-law has no understanding
of the most basic human impulses.

When he inevitably mismanages this,

my father will seethe
with disappointment, disdain...

regret for choosing someone
outside the bloodline of the family

for the role of High Priest.

[door open♪]

- Brother.
- Ah, Shoshana.

Oh, I'm so happy to see you.
Come, come inside.

Come. Hello. How was your journey?

- [Ananu♪] Good. I'm hungry as a horse.
- [♪hosh laugh♪] Well...

[indistinct chatter]

Ananus.

- Caiaphas.
- [Caiaphas laugh♪]

- [Ananus chuckle♪]
- Oh!

I see you brought a congregation
to this appointment.

Well, the situation calls for
a congregation.

Because the two of us could not simply
make deliberations as a pair?

"In an abundance of counselors,
there is safety."

Oh, feeling unsafe, are you?

[♪hosh] Enough already, you two.

Let's eat, and you'll forget
your squabbles.

Our abba won't forget, Shosh.

- [tense music playing]
- Abba wants you and Caiaphas

to collaborate.

If you can't do that,
then stop wasting everyone's time,

and get out of this house.

Why the need for collaboration?

[gasp♪] Oh.

Because your husband
can't handle it by himself?

I'm sorry for the long walk you've...

you've all made through
Jerusalem's crowded streets.

But I'm afraid you've
come here under false pretenses.

I've already made the decision
to arrest Jesus.

I received approval
from Annas early this morning.

Arrest him?

Hmm. [chuckle♪]

And then what?

Our law prohibits trials from being held
on Shabbat or High Holy Days.

The Passover begins tomorrow night.

And capital trials must last
more than one day

to allow for purposeful consideration
on the part of the judges.

You're out of time, Caiaphas.
Even if you knew where to find him.

I have...

[groan♪]

I have operatives
currently scouting his location.

Ooh! Operatives.

- [whispering] He has operatives.
- Enough.

Rabbi, look.

The fig tree you cursed
withered overnight.

Peter, you've seen me walk on water,
and you're astonished by this?

I don't know. It gets me every time.

Listen carefully.

I know you're confused
about why I would curse a fig tree.

Yes, Nathanael?

Of course.

Have faith.

You've heard many of our rabbis
talk about moving mountains.

Obstacles or impossible situations

that get in our way of pursuing
or trusting God.

And truly, whoever says
to this mountain right here,

"Be taken up and thrown into the sea,"

and does not doubt in his heart,

it will be done for him.

Whatever you ask in prayer,

believe that you have received it,
and it will be yours.

Sounds great.

You need to understand that, as you face
mountains the rest of your life.

But I didn't just do this to the tree
to prove I can do anything.

Why else did I curse this tree?

Philip?

It did not bear fruit.

But as John pointed out yesterday,
it wasn't in season anyway.

What was I expecting?

There were leaves.

Very good, Andrew.

It's not in full season,

but fruit usually comes
before or along with leaves.

Leaves promise fruit,
even if just the beginning of growth.

And there was nothing.

This tree gave the appearance of fruit,
but lacked anything good.

Does that remind you of anything?

The temple.

I destroyed the marketplace in the temple

and cursed the leaders there
for the same reason as this tree.

I am here to tear down
what isn't bearing fruit.

And the time for that is now.

And you need to be aware.

John, tell me.

From the moment
the fig tree's branches become tender,

and the first buds appear,
what does it tell you?

- About seasons.
- That summer is about to arrive.

So also it is with you.

The things you have seen and heard this
past week are a sign to you, a signal,

that what has been foretold is
about to pass, like the arrival of summer.

[pensive music playing]

I have told Peter, and John,

and Big James, and Andrew this already.

But now I say to all of you as well,
because I want you to be ready,

and to prepare yourselves.

You will be delivered up
to tribulation, and put to death.

And you will be hated
by all nations for my name's sake.

But before this...

something else must happen,
which I have told you before,

and yet you seem...

unwilling, unable,
or not sober enough to absorb.

As you all know, the Passover
begins tomorrow at sunset.

And on the first day of the Passover,

the Son of Man will be delivered up
to be crucified.

- But just delivered up, right?
- Crucified?

If I have to die myself,
I won't let it happen.

- We'll take your place.
- You can prevent whatever you want.

[Matthew] There can be no executions
during High Holy Days.

It would be illegal.

[Thaddeu♪]
Who delivers you? We'll stop them.

[Little Jame♪]
We can get you out of the city tonight.

[band playing ancient folk music]

[Claudia] Again.

[band playing ancient folk music]

Hades and Styx, Claudia, look at yourself.

My love.

Please, what is it? Just tell me.

Coiled.

[ominous music playing]

A garden.

Olives.

A lion.

[breathing shakily]

Curtain.

Horses. Broken graves.

None of that makes any sense.

We have to leave.

- What?
- Now.

Pontius, let's leave this city
and never come back.

Never come back? Why?

Darling, I know you haven't been
feeling well...

We can't stay.

Claudia, a city is
not the thing causing your indisposition.

It doesn't work that way.

It's not the city. It's...

- It's what, then?
- It's... It...

[breathing shakily]

I...

I can't.

I am the Governor of Jerusalem!

We cannot return to Caesarea Maritima
during this momentous week,

for reasons that we both know.

Well, I'm not the governor.

Let me go.

I can't be here.

[tense music playing]

- I can't.
- You are my wife.

How will it look to the people?

Which do you love more? Hmm?

The people's perception
of our marriage, or me?

Oh—

[grunting]

Wait. No, no, no.

No, I take it back. I take it back.
I can't leave you behind.

Who knows what you might do to him.

Do to whom?

You have a history, Pontius.

And you have never had
to make hard choices.

Oh.

Oh. [chuckle♪]

I'm sorry.

I'm sorry. Um...

Just keep breathing, and try to relax.

Oh, you've just ended
any possibility of that.

[♪igh♪]

[band playing ancient folk music]

What?

What is it?

You don't appear to be in the mood
for pleasantries. I'll get straight to it.

At this very moment, the Pharisees
are plotting to arrest Jesus of Nazareth.

They what? That's absurd.
How do you know that?

Of course you know. They don't have
the authority. It's illegal.

- Who would arrest him?
- They have a temple guard.

They guard the temple. It's in the name.

They don't arrest citizens.
Only we can do that.

They were hoping you might do it,
but that plan didn't work.

Now they're planning to do it,
the law be damned.

Well, then we'll slap them with a colossal
fine, to both remind them of their place

and make up for the lost revenues
from the incident in the market.

Problem solved.

[tense music playing]

- [grunt♪]
- Listen to me, Pontius.

I have served you like a grateful son
and, at times, a protective father.

Take your hands off me.

I have held your hand
like a little boy crossing the street,

and tried to save you from yourself.

You will not speak to me like that.

I am Atticus Aemilius Pulcher.

An upper legate of the Imperial Legion.

Commander of Roman Emperor Tiberius'
Cohortes Urbanae private police.

And you, Pontius Pilate...

are derelict in your duty.

I'm gonna take care
of some of these things myself.

When the time comes,
you better be ready to take the reins.

There is only one solution

to this endless strife in our community.

Jesus the Nazarene must be put to death.

That would only create more strife.

Sow the wind, reap the whirlwind.

We don't have the authority.

How in Hades are you going to get Pilate
to sanction such an execution?

He wants this thorn
out of his side, as much as we do.

Who said we all feel him to be a thorn?

You'd be lying to say you haven't marveled
at his teaching, Shmuel.

I have marveled at his audacity.

At his contempt for Torah,
tradition, and us.

He does not hold Torah in contempt.

He does question some of our traditions.

And to be honest, some of them
could warrant reexamination.

You're so predictable, Shimon.

What do you want?
To set our practices in immovable stone?

The world is changing,
and Jesus offers a vision to redeem it.

You hate that?

Hate?

Yussif, this is not about hate.

It is about love.

Love for God's eternal word.

For the faith that has sustained
our people for generations.

David k*lled Goliath because he loved
Israel and was zealous for her protection.

And it was David who later wrote
in his songs,

"Zeal for your house has consumed me,

and the reproaches of those
who reproach you have fallen on me."

David did a lot of things
that wouldn't hold up in this court.

Are we going to debate this until sundown?

Speaking of death, my wife will k*ll me

if I leave her alone to search and purge
the home of leaven all by herself.

You shouldn't use the word "k*ll" lightly.

We are debating an actual human life here,
not your marriage.

Ozem is right.

The Passover begins tomorrow night.

And we are running out of time

before legal infractions related
to the holiday

suspend any possibility
of meaningful action.

[tense music playing]

And yet our peril is serious.

It is unlikely that Jesus
will go away, or silence himself.

No one knows where he is,

and I have assured Pilate that
we can handle the situation ourselves.

[indistinct chatter]

The only answer is prayer.

Adonai, our God,

King of the Universe,

may the Lord of Justice
spread a Sukkah of wisdom

over this nation,
in the face of imminent destruction.

Your eternal word has been slandered.

The holy temple,
your dwelling place among men,

maimed, ravaged, and violated.

Your Chosen People,
seduced, bewitched, and deceived

by a sorcerer and necromancer,

who has declared himself higher than you.

There is none higher than you.

Do not remember against us our iniquities,

or the iniquities of former generations,

but let your compassion
come speedily to meet us,

for we are brought very low.

Help us, O God of our salvation,

for the glory of your name.

Deliver us for your name's sake.

Why should the nations say,
"Where is their God?"

Send us wisdom, guidance, aid,

and revelation.

We beseech you.

Arise, and show mercy to Zion.

Blessed be our God. Blessed be our Lord.

Blessed be our King, our Savior.

Amen.

[all] Amen.

[♪omber music playing]

Shmuel?

What is it?

[♪omber music playing]

[♪obbing]

[Peter] Psst.

[Little James crying]

[grunt♪]

Come on, Nathanael.

You okay?

He's going through a hard time.

- You think so?
- John.

- He can't mean the things he says.
- I don't think that's possible.

I've come to learn everything's possible.

When has he ever not meant what he said?

Must be test. He...

He wanted to see how we would react.

Well, he saw.

Or it is a forewarning,
so we can prepare to rescue him.

- He didn't ask for that, Zee.
- I can't believe this is happening.

- Nothing is happening.
- Peter, are you blind? Deaf?

Things are happening, and if any of you
had been paying close attention,

it would not have come as a sudden shock.

How dare you accuse us
of not paying attention?

You're all acting as if
he's never intimated, hinted,

or even said these things to us outright.

He was testing us.

He was testing us,
to see if we would still believe.

Andrew, I love you,

but that is the dumbest thing
I've ever heard come out of your mouth.

And we went through puberty together.

Everyone!

Stay focused.

Just as a thought experiment.

What if we take him at his word?

That it's not a test.
It's not a metaphorical language.

It's straightforward, literal information.

Then we've all been deceived.

He's not the Messiah, and we've wasted
the past three years of our lives.

- How can you say that?
- How, Thaddeus? You want to ask me how?

Boys.

Don't do this.

I'm with Matthew.

We take him at his word.

It's insane to me that
any of you could consider doing otherwise.

He often speaks in parables.

"Delivered up to be crucified"
does not sound like a parable to me.

It came right after he told us
to move mountains,

based on a fig tree he cursed
to represent the temple.

Fair point.

I also agree with Matthew.

And with Thomas.

Judas, my views
and Thomas' are not the same.

- But they are connected.
- I don't get it.

- You sure don't.
- Shh, enough. Both of you.

[pensive music playing]

Explain.

Hear me out.

Suppose Thomas is right.

The prediction is literal.

And he is not only delivered up,
but consequently crucified.

Then we have our answer.

And we can go on looking
for the real Messiah.

- Looking for...
- Judas.

- What are you saying?
- What's with you?

[indistinct chatter]

Hear me out. Listen, listen.

Are you listening to the words
coming out of your mouth?

- Listen to me, please.
- [Philip] Stop it, boys, stop it.

Let him speak.

Or in a variation
on Matthew's interpretation,

we take him at his word, and it's literal,
and he's delivered up, but...

But in that hour,

because he is all-powerful,

he evades death,

with the almighty capabilities
we have witnessed him to possess.

And that moment
we have all waited for finally occurs.

He will strike down his enemies,

and usher in the Messianic Age.

I only like one of those outcomes.

I did not say
that I think that would happen.

Judas is right.

It could.

I will not accept having wasted
the past three years of my life.

- There is no way.
- What will you accept, Zee?

Brothers, this is pointless.

- Pointless? Little James...
- Look, regardless of what's going on...

We have to be on the same page.
It doesn't make sense if we're not.

This is our lives, man. Three years.

[indistinct chatter]

- Pointless?
- Then what?

[♪houts, groan♪]

[♪hout♪]

[grunt♪]

[exhales sharply]

[groan♪]

[panting]

[ominous music playing]

[intriguing music playing]

[both grunting]

[♪uspenseful music playing]

Stay put. Don't move.

[groaning]

- Hold him.
- Don't move.

- [grunt♪]
- [guard shout♪]

Don't let him get away.

- [arm crack♪]
- [♪cream♪]

[groaning]

[knocking on door]

- Hello, Shmuel.
- I need to speak with Caiaphas.

It's past visiting hours. The High Priest
is having dinner with his wife.

He will want to hear this.

I'd be happy to take down a message
and give it to him...

It's about Jesus of Nazareth.
His whereabouts.

Wait here one moment.

[panting]

- Shmuel.
- Yes?

Come inside, please.

[door close♪]

You prayed today in the assembly

that God should send us help, aid,
and answers that we so desperately seek.

Yes.

I believe your prayer,
our prayer, may have been answered.

[tense music playing]

May have?

I know someone who,
with almost complete certainty,

would be able to give us
the whereabouts of Jesus.

An asset, if you will.

What are you waiting for?

Send and have this asset...

This answer to our prayers
brought to me at once.

[grunting]

Mary, Mary, Mary.

Listen carefully, Mary of Magdala.

This is not an as*ault.

As long as you don't fight,
you will not be harmed. Just trust me.

- Who are you? What do you want?
- Reuben.

- Help! Somebody, help me.
- No, don't. We are here to help you.

We are here to help.

He told me you'd be difficult,
so I had to prepare with help.

Who is he? What is this?

I cannot tell you anything more,
but you will soon have answers.

Would you agree things are getting
quite tense and dangerous

in this city at the moment?

No one wants to make this
any worse than it needs to be.

Now, I'm going to put this over your head
and put you in that cart.

I know it's scary, but it is
for everyone's safety, including yours.

Please, do not resist. Do you understand?

I'm sorry about this.

Okay.

There is one other thing, Your Honor.

Obtaining the information
from the asset may require some...

I think we can handle that.

Malchus.

[♪uspenseful music playing]

They're here, Your Honor.

[Mary panting]

Where am I? What is going on?

You are not in danger.

- Please, follow me.
- Please?

You're trying to be polite? [chuckle♪]

I promise you, I am not your enemy.

Judas Iscariot.

Please, come in.

She's here, sir.

['Here Again" playing]

♪ The bed I made ♪

♪ Made of stone ♪

♪ The ones who lay ♪

♪ They ride along ♪

♪ Getting low don't get you high ♪

♪ And you've become a house of lies ♪

♪ I'm here again
Thought I'd win ♪

♪ Here again
Where I've been ♪

♪ Said, "When all is said and done ♪

♪ Let me lie in what I've done" ♪

♪ Here again
One more round ♪

♪ Pull me in
Pull me down ♪

♪ Saying, "Oh, these troubles never end ♪

♪ And I'm back here again" ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪

♪ I'm back here again ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪

♪ Seems every day ♪

♪ Never end ♪

♪ Ran a hundred miles ♪

♪ To be here again ♪

♪ Moving on don't get you by ♪

♪ But you can't look truth in the eye ♪

♪ I'm here again
Thought I'd win ♪

♪ Here again
From where I'd been ♪

♪ Said, "When all is said and done ♪

♪ Let me lie in what I've done" ♪

♪ Here again
One more round ♪

♪ Pull me in
Pull me down ♪

♪ I said, "Oh, these troubles never end ♪

♪ And I'm back here again" ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪

♪ And I'm back here again ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪

♪ Oh, I'm back here again ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪

♪ Yeah, I'm back here again ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
