05x04 - The Same Coin

[Jesu♪]
John, will you begin the Dayenu for us?

Yes.

Of course, Rabbi.

[John clears throat]

If he had brought us out from Egypt,

and not carried out judgments
against them...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had carried out judgments
against them,

and not destroyed their idols...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had destroyed their idols,
and not k*lled their firstborn...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had k*lled their firstborn,
and had not given us their wealth...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had given us their wealth,
and not split the sea for us...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had split the sea for us,
and not taken us through it on dry land...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had taken us through it on dry land,
and not drowned our enemies in it...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had drowned our enemies in it,

and then not supplied our needs
in the desert for 40 years...

[all] It would have been enough.

[Lazaru♪] If he had supplied us
in the desert for 40 years,

and not fed us the manna...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had fed us the manna,
and had not given us the Shabbat...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had given us the Shabbat,
and not brought us before Mount Sinai...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had brought us before Mount Sinai,
and not given us the Torah...

[all] It would have been enough.

If he had given us the Torah, but
not brought us to the land of Israel...

[all] It would have been enough.

And if he had brought us
to the land of Israel,

and not built for us the Holy Temple...

[all] It would have been enough.

[all] Amen.

[♪imon Peter] And now...

the bitter herbs.

[Big Jame♪] Wait.

I have something to add.

If he had built for us the holy temple,

and not sent the Messiah in our lifetimes...

[voice breaking]
It would have been enough.

We would have waited.

But you chose us.

You chose now.

And it is enough.

[Big James crying]

James, why are you crying?

If you don't know by now, then...

Thank you, Big James.

Peter is right.
We move on to the bitter herbs.

A reminder of the bitterness of sl*very.

Salt water,
a reminder of the tears of our people.

[all] Blessed are you,
Lord our God, King of the Universe,

who has sanctified us
in his commandments to eat bitter herbs.

[whispering] Lord, who is it?

Is it Thomas?

[whispering]

[cr*cker break♪]

You do not have to stay anymore.

Judas.

He has you now.

Who?

Not God.

[whispering]
It didn't have to be this way.

But you can still stop things
from ending badly.

What you are going to do...

do it quickly.

[Judas panting]

[communal chatter]

- Philip, where did Judas go?
- Hmm.

Passover tradition. Give alms to the poor.

He is keeper of the purse.

But in the middle of dinner?

Maybe he forgot.

Maybe to get more food too.
It'll run out quick.

Probably because you're eating too fast.

I'm starving.

Honestly,
it's ironic to call Passover a feast.

[Jesu♪] My friends...

I am with you just a little while longer.

And where I am going...

you cannot come.

And so...

a new commandment I give to you.

That you love one another.

Just as I have loved you...

you also are to love one another.

By this, all people will know
that you are my disciples,

if you have love for one another.

The commandment to love isn't new.

But the commandment to love one another

in the truly sacrificial way
that I am showing you...

it will transform you...

and others.

Lord, where...

Where exactly are you going?

[theme music playing]

♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Oh, yeah ♪

♪ Oh ♪

♪ Oh, child, come on in
Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[communal chatter]

[Kafni] We must seize this opportunity.
We should go.

Go out to find others.

See who more we can find.

First the market, and now
an endorsement of Rome's taxation.

He will not recover from this.

Be assured,
you will see justice for your lambs,

and your livelihood.

You look worried.

They were so obviously trying
to get him to say the wrong thing.

But he is not capable
of saying the wrong thing.

Not in their eyes.

And not in the eyes of those
expecting a different kind of Messiah.

They want someone who will destroy Caesar,
not tell us to give him money.

What is going to happen?

Excuse me, could you tell me
where I could find the...

You. It's Shmuel, right?

From Capernaum?

You were in Bethany
at the house of Lazarus three days ago

with your friend, Yussif.

Friend?

Colleague?

From our time in Capernaum,

you and another came to question Jesus.

You mean the defiled home where the woman
debased herself, and the rest of us?

Think whatever you want about her.
Just tell me where I can find Yussif.

You think he can help your cause?

This woman is from the Red Quarter
in Capernaum, possessed by seven demons.

I'm from Magdala by the Sea,
possessed by the creator of the universe.

And what do you practice now?

Allegiance to a man
who just preached his own death sentence

to a crowd of a thousand witnesses?

- Death sentence?
- He has given us no choice.

He will be silenced, shamed, and censured.

And when people hear
who stood by his heresies,

you'd be better off in a leper colony.

A leper colony, he would heal and redeem.

The truth is, there is nowhere
you can send us where Jesus is not Lord.

I think what he said
means something terrible for you.

And I think you know it.

They may not, but you do,
and it drives you mad.

[Yussif] What is going on here?

- Were you in the crowd for all that?
- I...

Of course you were.
You're enamored with him.

The whole Sanhedrin knows by now.

- Yussif, I need to speak with you.
- Of course.

By all means, Yussif, be seen
with a woman from the Red Quarter.

Have you no decency at all?

You saw what that woman
in Bethany did with the ointment.

And her hair, and his feet,
and you said nothing.

Now you have the gall
to accuse me of indecency?

We have to get word of what happened
to the High Priest.

Ignore them. Are you all right?

He just confirms my worst fears.

Mary, things are getting out of control.

That's why I need your help.

- They're trying to k*ll Jesus, Yussif.
- Nothing is official yet.

Shmuel just told me
he preached his own death sentence.

Yussif, they're calling an emergency
meeting first thing in the morning.

We must go back to Shimon's office
and make a plan.

We need you now, Yussif. Come!

I'm sorry, Mary, this is urgent.

Wait, just a brief moment.

[Juda♪] Peter.

Did he say anything more?

- Shalom to you too, Judas.
- He needs to explain his speech.

He'll never unify the people

if he's sounds like
he's validating Rome's authority.

I didn't hear any validation.

He legitimized their taxation
by saying it...

It's funding roads and protection.

What is your point?

They are the foreign invaders.

Yeah, the latest in a succession of many.

The Babylonians,
the Persians, the Macedonians.

He's the Messiah.
He's supposed to give us Israel back.

- How would you prefer he answer?
- By denouncing the tax.

Calling Caesar's claim
to be the Son of God blasphemous.

Declaring that the income
that God has given us

should not go to the oppressors
of our land, that God has given us.

And reminding us
that he is here to dethrone Caesar,

become the King of Israel.

For starters.

- Then what would've happened?
- He walked on water, Peter!

- You don't have to remind me.
- Are you sure?

I was with you for weeks
as we experienced his power for ourselves,

but it seems you've forgotten.

We watched
as he brought Lazarus out of a tomb.

Loaves and fish appeared
in the hands of the hungry.

You're telling me
that he couldn't snap his fingers

and make swords appear in the hands
of every person in that temple?

Of course he could, but he didn't.

You understand?
They set him a rhetorical trap.

He evaded it,
like David from the tip of Saul's spear.

Those men went straight to Caiaphas
and Herod. Maybe even Pilate.

Pilate would be delighted
with the bit about the taxes.

As long as they don't mention
that Rome is just living in God's world,

inscribing empty phrases on their coins.

You're a walking contradiction, Judas,
you know that?

You believe he could make swords
magically appear

in the hands of all those people,

and yet from that same mouth,
you question his every move.

Why can't that faith
that believes so fully, knows so deeply,

also allow you
to trust that he knows what he's doing?

[♪tammer♪]

Look,
he chose each one of us for a reason.

Maybe mine is to...

No, that's you again. That's your ideas.

I love you, Judas.

But your mind is so full
of your own ideas, you shut off belief.

Boys, we're gathering for prayer,
and to talk about tomorrow.

Great idea.

This tactic of countering your question
with a question of his own,

he deployed it only regarding
the matter of John's baptism?

Yes, it was the only question
that ended in a standoff.

- [chuckle♪]
- But the people were awed and amazed.

Ah, people are unlearned.

His method has been around
since Socrates, the Greek.

Our Pharisee colleagues
could never have seen it coming,

because they do not read broadly.

But I believe
he is of the Pharisee persuasion.

He believes in a resurrection.

A realm you tell me he described

as being devoid of marital copulation.

Who would want to go?

He compared us to those who stoned
and k*lled the prophets God sent.

Yes, yes, he's not the first heretic
and Messiah claimant

to hurl insults and dazzle the masses.

But what concerns me, is this matter
of the destruction of the temple.

Mm. The Sanhedrin is convening
an emergency meeting as we speak.

But I do not believe that
the matter of the temple's destruction

will be top of the agenda.

Then what will be?

As I understand from Shmuel and Zebediah,
it will be undermining Jesus' authority.

They are so nearsighted,
one might easily mistake them for bats.

[chuckle♪] Bats?

The Pharisees will not be able to move
past the immediacy of their fragile egos.

- Mm.
- True, a vociferous faction of the people

may be put off by his comment about taxes,

and it was a valiant effort by Yanni

to get the Romans
upset enough to arrest him, but...

the majority remain enthralled by Jesus.

But the Pharisees hold sway.

But we have Roman authorities to appease,
and the festival to observe.

If the Sanhedrin acts recklessly,
and incites a riot...

we won't be able to do either.

Malchus!

- Ready my vestments.
- Yes, Your Honor.

Look, I don't like this Jesus
any better than they do,

but he's walking into a trap
wherein everybody loses.

Us, him, the people.

And Pilate, who's one brutality away
from losing his job.

You think Jesus cares about any of that?

It probably excites him.

The Pharisees
are too caught up to think clearly.

We tried to trap him publicly.
It didn't work.

- Fine. Only I can save this now.
- How?

By arresting him quietly,

in the middle of the night,
without fanfare,

before the festival begins.

[grunt♪] Jesus' mysterious absence will
force the people to focus on Passover.

And then Pilate will thank me
when I return these garments,

for keeping the festival
from spiraling out of control.

Respectfully, sir, your plan is predicated
upon the ability to find Jesus,

something even his own followers
often aren't able to do.

It looks like you understand
your next assignment, Rabbi Gedera.

[chuckle♪]

This Phoebe woman has quite an
impressive collection, doesn't she?

- Didn't mean to startle you.
- No, it's okay, Rabbi. Please.

Oh, boy.

Well, the first commandment didn't exactly
make it into this home, did it?

If you think it's bad for me to look,
I can go back inside.

No, please, sit.

We all know you've read the Greek stories.
Don't worry, I won't tell Zebedee.

Your secret is safe.

Thank you, Rabbi.

So tell me, what's this one about?

Actually, this one, they sort of stole
from us. At least, the beginning part.

Stole. Hmm.

Remember in the period of the Judges,
the story of Jephthah?

Ah, yes, his tragic vow.

- Well, he was about to fight the Hittites...
- Ammonites.

Yes.

- Thank you, Rabbi.
- No problem.

Anyway, Jephthah made a vow
to the Lord and said,

"If you will give the Ammonites
into my hand,

then the first thing to come out
from the doors of my house to meet me,

when I return in peace
from defeating the Ammonites,

I will offer up
as a burnt offering to the Lord."

Misguided.

Well, sure enough, Jephthah triumphed,
crushed the Ammonites.

But when he returned home,
the first thing to come out of his house...

was his only daughter.

With tambourines and singing.

Jephthah fell to his knees,
tore his clothes, and cried out,

"Alas, my daughter.
You have brought me very low.

For I have opened my mouth to the Lord,
and I cannot take back my vow."

And so, Jephthah...

[♪igh♪] ... followed through on his vow.

Something my Father never asked him to do.

Back then, there was no king in Israel.

Everyone did what was right
in his own eyes.

People still do.

Take things into their own hands.

Hmm.

So, what was the part they stole from us?

Well, in their version, King Agamemnon
sacrifices his daughter to Artemis,

in order to gain victory
for the Greeks in the Trojan w*r.

See? Plagiarism. Should we hire a lawyer?

After what you said
about lawyers yesterday,

it will be hard to find one
who will take your case now, Rabbi.

I won't argue that.

So that's him? That's Agamemnon?

Tortured by the sacrifice
of his own daughter?

No, that's actually his son.

- [Jesu♪] Oh.
- [pensive music playing]

- The whole family gets involved.
- Oh, yes.

Agamemnon's wife murders him
for sacrificing their daughter.

Then the son here murders the mother.

And he's the only one left standing.

A charming story, really.

Well, then the Furies...

hunt and haunt and torment him.

And in the end,

does he ever find peace?

Can he come to forgive himself
for what he did?

Rabbi, I'm...

starting to understand more.

Tell me.

Everyone, from our leaders
to those of us who follow you,

including myself...

we're seeing things and doing things...

from our own... flawed perspective.

[♪obbing]

It's going to cost us.

You're paying attention.

Things...

things are going to change, aren't they?

Yes, John...

things will change.

But stay close to me as they do.

How will we find peace without you?

How can we forgive ourselves
for what we did to lose you?

You don't have to forgive yourself...

because I forgive you.

And you don't have to lose me...

because my spirit
will never leave or forsake you.

With the utmost and highest respect,
Chief Elders Shimon and Shammai

have requested a moment
to organize their factions.

Are you insane?
He's the High Priest. Let us through.

There is a provision
for this type of thing in the bylaws,

anticipating that members may hold back
if the High Priest is present.

Perhaps that sort of intellectual
cowardice should be laid bare.

It's all right, Gedera.

I prefer not wasting my time
watching them haggle.

- Shall I wait with you?
- No, no. Go.

Zebediah, if we can find the humility,

to lay aside our differences
during this significant moment,

I think we can both soberly admit,

the attitudes of our congregations
are no longer directed by us.

I have cause enough to lay blame
at the feet of Hillel sympathizers.

[♪himon] To what end?

We have a common problem.

Jesus the Nazarene operates
entirely outside our jurisdiction.

Dismissive of tradition and precedent.

He pushes the people's attitudes
toward an uncharted realm of thought,

alien to both our interpretations
of Torah.

- The time for unity is now.
- [man] Yes.

I hereby motion to open the floor
for proposals that can be agreed upon

and presented to the High Priest
for immediate authorization.

[♪hmuel clears throat]

[tense music playing]

I have documented Jesus' actions,

teachings, and rumors
of signs longer than anyone.

Objection.
I have witnessed as much as Shmuel.

We met him for the first time
at the same day in Capernaum.

- Sustained.
- I said, documented.

Not merely witnessed.
And what have you done about it?

Actionable proposals, gentlemen.

The matter of the Ghost of Bethany.

[clamoring]

The preposterous notion
that Jesus the Nazarene

called forth from the tomb

a man four days dead and decaying,
raised to life.

The witnesses are few, but vocal.

What is so odious to you
about a resurrection?

What affront does this present
to God's law?

Torah only requires two or three
male witnesses of sound mind and body.

Once again, you misunderstand me, Rabbi.

I myself have witnessed his signs,
most of them harmless.

But such wonders
also cloud people's judgment,

and may be part of his strategy
to distract for his true purpose.

That is what has ultimately led
to this emergency meeting.

Why wasn't a meeting called immediately
upon learning of the resurrection?

Maybe something has happened
to cloud people's judgment.

The rumor now has
a stranglehold on the people,

who are convinced he is the Anointed One.

If they believe he can raise the dead,
why wouldn't they assume he is Messiah?

[♪hmuel] Precisely.

People believe Lazarus died
and was resurrected by Jesus.

In reality, it was
an elaborately constructed hoax.

Lazarus' death certificate was registered...

The man hid in a tomb

until his childhood friend
called for him to emerge...

Registered with the city of Bethany's
municipal coroner, signed by a notary.

Who's to say
the coroner wasn't part of the hoax?

Me.

A shock to no one, Yussif.

[men laughing]

Tragically, Jesus
has now forced us into a situation

where to protect our people,
we must consider drastic measures.

If the people are following a man

falsely claiming
he raised Lazarus from death,

we make sure he's dead.

Now the issue is being addressed.

You're suggesting m*rder, Shmuel?

I have always taken seriously
the lives of our own.

I would never suggest such an act
without extreme cause.

But from the Third Book of Moses,

"Whoever blasphemes the name of the Lord
shall surely be put to death.

All the congregation shall stone him."

This goes too far, Shmuel.
Lazarus is a faithful Jew.

It is written in the Second Book of Moses,

"You shall keep the Sabbath,
for it is holy for you.

Everyone who profanes it
shall be put to death.

Whoever does any work on it, that soul
shall be cut off from his people."

Jesus is the one accused
of these violations, not Lazarus.

Jesus has committed these infractions.

The only reason
you're not holding him accountable

is because you're entranced with the idea
he has divine powers to raise the dead!

Let's put it to a vote.

Scribes, ready the ballots.

Yes, I agree, let's vote.

Who believes in Holy Scripture,
and who believes in the Nazarene.

[crowd clamoring]

Scribes, come.

They're preparing a vote, Your Honor.
Apologies for the delay.

It would only draw things out longer

if they tried to reach consensus
with you in the room.

The craven posturing for favor.

Characterization is unflattering,
Zebediah.

I would be more honored
to preside over members

with the integrity
to voice their true opinions.

I would expect nothing less
from the handpicked successor to Annas.

Who was, by the way,
undeservedly stripped of his position

by overzealous Roman oversight.

You're an admirer of my father-in-law?

He is exactly the manner of person

you just said you wish
the current Sanhedrin was composed of.

Unafraid to stand by his convictions,
even at the expense of his own position.

Don't you agree?

[chuckle♪] Annas is my wife's father.
How could I possibly disagree with you?

You carry the mantle of Annas.
You even have his sense of humor.

Is that why Valerius Gratus appointed you,
instead of one of his blood sons, huh?

You can take a joke and Ananus can't?

You'd have to ask Valerius Gratus.

But the sons of Annas
all have equal merit.

Then perhaps we should consult
one of your brothers-in-law?

Ananus, perhaps.

An excellent idea, Zebediah.

The more input we can have
from members of the High Priest's family,

the stronger our case will be.

Yanni, I know you're a man
of little power, but many connections.

Thank you?

Find me the scribe you most trust.

Have him issue a request to Ananus,
son of High Priest Annas,

to offer his opinion on this matter

of the controversial figure,
Jesus the Nazarene.

Of course.

Add that I value his opinion
on this sensitive issue.

And be sure to include,
"With warmest regards."

- Hmm? Hmm. Hmm.
- Ah.

[Juda♪] Shalom.

Judas.

I hope I'm not interrupting anything.
Is this a bad time?

I didn't know you were here,
but I've been hoping to speak to you.

John has kept my secret.

- Would you like to sit?
- Yes.

Very much. Thank you.

Please.

[clears throat] Well...

So we've arrived at the critical moment.

There have been so many.

All of Israel has gathered in one place...

ready to crown you king.

Your popularity amongst them
has never been greater.

Rome is sitting on its hands,
hoping this will all blow over.

[Jesus chuckle♪]

And they may even be delighted
by what you said about taxes.

I see.

But it's going to be easy
for your adversaries in the temple

to weaponize what you said
about the taxes,

and spread ill will
amongst the people like a disease.

Everything will deteriorate rapidly.

The window of opportunity is closing,
even as we speak.

Sounds like you have some ideas.

You called each of us for a reason.

I've been a successful businessman
in the past,

and I have experience
with human persuasion,

so I can tell when a deal
is on the verge of closing, or losing big.

It is... It is a knife's edge.

And so to adopt your language
for a moment...

what is the deal...

you're proposing I close?

Lay claim to your birthright.

[pensive music playing]

You are the Messiah.

Son of David.

The people are so convinced,
they're singing songs in your name.

It's time.

Mm.

And if I don't do whatever big thing
you've imagined I should do at this time...

will you still believe?

Of course, I will.

Then why are you suggesting
that you know better than I do

what should be
the next best course of action?

- I trust you. Do you trust me?
- What sort of question is that?

You believe
I have something to offer this group?

- Yes?
- I do.

Then why won't you take my advice?
Am I not here to help you?

I've never asked you for your advice.

[yelling] Then what am I here for?

If I am no use to your kingdom...

then I am nothing.

You have a choice to make, Judas.

I'm listening.

Who you belong to.

Who has your heart.

I want it.

And I've had it before.

You followed me willingly.

I want to continue.

There's nothing more that I want
than that.

Then I will pray for you.

But for now,

please, leave me in peace.

- But Rabbi, I...
- Please.

Thank you for your time, Rabbi.

[♪ob♪]

[♪niffle♪]

[door slam♪]

[Joanna]
Had you heard of the Passover before?

Of course, I heard of it,
but I'd never been.

I had no idea
that there'd be this many people.

Chuza and I always confined ourselves
to Herod's residence.

I understand why
Phoebe leaves the city altogether, but...

- But what?
- I don't know. I...

There's something wonderful about it too.

I like passion in people. I...

I like the rhythmic coming and going
of the pilgrims.

When they're not coming to hurt us,
or going to get reinforcements.

[both laugh]

I would prefer it that way, yes.

It just makes me want to learn.

So that I could... argue for him, or...

I think you have learned a lot.

- You won't realize it until...
- We have to pack.

- Pack?
- What?

Jesus wants us removed from the city
for the next two days.

- Why?
- [Mary] I don't know.

Something about spending time
alone together, before...

Before what?

I can't be certain. It sounds like
we won't be spending Seder with him.

- No!
- Don't k*ll the messenger.

But then we won't be able to...

I know, I know, but we'll just...
We'll have to find another way.

He said we'll be alone together.
Maybe we can do it then.

We would want
Mary Mother there anyway, right?

- [♪imon Peter] Mary?
- Coming, Peter.

What is he in a hurry for?

Because the boys convinced Jesus
we shouldn't separate at the moment.

Let's go before he changes his mind.

[Tamar sigh♪]

[communal chatter]

No one has been drinking,
that I know of, but is everyone drunk?

Half asleep?

Why can't you see this, Peter?

This is his moment
to fulfill the prophecies,

and it's passing by quickly,
while we're walking to Bethany.

We have to act now.

[tense music playing]

There's so much going on,
I've barely thought to eat. [chuckle♪]

Did you bring any food?

We figured there'd be plenty
at the house of Lazarus.

Mary and Martha
seem to keep the kitchen well-stocked.

Ah. No matter.

God's given us a fig tree.

It's not the season for figs.

Rabbi,
are you sure this trip is necessary?

Why Bethany?

Time is of the essence.
We're wasting time!

May no fruit ever come from you again.

- Master?
- I'll be all right, John.

Let's keep going.

Mary, Tamar, Joanna,

please, go into the house of Lazarus.

My mother will immediately ask
how I'm doing,

so if you could just keep her at bay
until I get there, that would be great.

[Jesus chuckle♪]

My brothers.

My students.

My followers whom I love.

I ask you
to be especially vigilant tonight.

What other way would we be?

I know, Zee, I just needed to say it
for everyone.

Yeah, but for who, exactly?

- What?
- I said, for everyone.

I'm aware of the reality of our situation,
probably more than some of you know.

While I am indoors with the women,
please, take turns keeping watch.

One here outside the house
a few paces away,

one at the door,

and one inside,
just beyond the dining room.

Rabbi, that's a lot of security.

For what exactly...

For the last time
we will ever be a danger to Lazarus.

I'll arrange.

Thank you, Zee.

I'll see you all in the morning.

[all laughing, chattering]

- Jesus, have you tried the olives?
- Not yet. Should I?

- [Martha] I got them specially for you.
- Oh, really?

- Not as good as ours, no?
- They might be better.

That's really good.

It's a healthy competition.

[Jesu♪] Do not put me
in the middle of the rivalry.

You'll be the judge.

- I'm getting stuffed.
- You're telling me. As I continue to eat.

[Jesu♪] Okay.

Here we are.

My sisters.

[clears throat]

And my mother.

[all laughing]

I have asked many things of you.

To hold a Shabbat dinner,

when you thought you weren't prepared,

or worthy,

or ready.

And yet you were.

You had everything you needed.

To my Eema.

To be long-suffering and forgiving.

Especially
when I stayed behind in the temple

this very week during the Passover
many, many years ago.

- You were 12.
- Okay, it's not necessary...

- He was 12.
- [all laugh]

I still remember the scolding.

- I still can't get over that.
- I don't blame you.

And don't forget the number of times
you spit up on my shoulder.

- Here we go.
- People never think of that part.

[Jesu♪] Long time to hold a grudge.
[laughing]

Mary and Martha.

To endure the pain
of your brother's death.

- As long as it lasted.
- [Jesu♪] Even so.

I know it was hard.

But there was a purpose in it.

And I thank you
for your faith in the midst of it all.

Eden.

To put up with the implications
of what it has meant

for me to call first your Simon,
and now your Peter,

to follow me,

and to be a leader in my ministry.

I know you have spent many nights alone.

But if I may be so bold

to say, that there will be fewer
of these nights in the near future.

Tamar.

To be a stranger in a strange land,
and a stranger among strange people.

To be subject to the slander
by the arbiters of our faith.

You know, it...

has been nothing

compared to the joy of following you.

I wouldn't trade it for the world.

[♪niffle♪]

Your faith.

Still beautiful.

Joanna.

For bringing Andrew to my cousin's prison.

John.

For supporting us out of your own means,
when we had nothing.

For Phoebe's house,

so that we may have
a roof over our heads, and not tents.

And for so much more.

I know that following me
has not come without a price.

Now I must ask you all for one more thing.

I ask that you keep your distance from me
in Jerusalem these next few days.

I'm sorry...

but it's for the best.

I think you will come to see that.

You mean, we won't observe
the Passover seder with you?

Believe me.

I would rather spend it with you.

But I have a few last words
to impart to my apostles

on the night of the Passover.

"Last"?

[♪igh♪] Mary.

You know because you've been listening.

That doesn't mean
I have to be okay with it.

I'm not asking you to be okay with it.

But I am asking you to keep your distance.

Why?

Please,
don't ask me to answer that right now.

[clears throat]

Well...

If we cannot celebrate
Seder supper with you,

then you must agree
to allow us the Dayenu.

- The Dayenu?
- Maybe you've heard of it.

[all laughing]

- We've prepared our own.
- Your own?

[pensive music playing]

[♪niffle♪]

If I had only had been given the joy

of holding you in my arms
that night in Bethlehem,

on a cold ground,

and not been able to see you
perform signs and wonders...

[women disciple♪]
It would have been enough.

If you had performed signs and wonders,

and not called me by name that night...

[women disciple♪]
It would have been enough.

If you had healed
Mary of Magdala of her demons,

and not healed my eema,
or called my husband after your miracle...

[women disciple♪]
It would have been enough.

If you had called Simon Peter...

and not healed my friend...

[women disciple♪]
It would have been enough.

If you had healed Ethan,

and not raised my brother...

[women disciple♪]
It would have been enough.

If you had raised my brother,

and not defended my honor
when I worshiped you...

[women disciple♪]
It would have been enough.

If you would have defended
Mary of Bethany,

but not given meaning to my life,

which had been so unhappy and unfulfilled,

by letting me support and participate

in this miraculous family,

that I do believe will change the world...

[women disciple♪]
It would have been enough.

[mouthing] It would have been enough.

It would have been enough.

It would have been enough.

- Mary, where are you going?
- I have to go back into Jerusalem.

[Tamar] But Jesus said not to.

He said to keep a distance from him,
not the city.

Mary!

[dramatic music playing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
