05x07 - The Upper Room Part I

Mudri

Rabbi.
-Sahs sameyah, sahs sameyah

Thank you, Mark. Now go down and
enjoy the Seder with your parents.

Are you sure? I'm here to serve.
–I'll take care of it. –Yes, Rabbi.

Welcome everyone.

The evening will be one to remember.

After we eat together,
we will go to the gathering,

where we will spend time in prayer
and reflection.

Before all of that, let's enjoy this
beautiful table that Peter and John

have prepared for us
and let's begin their remembrance.

Rabbi, that boy Mark
said that a servant

would soon come to help us
wash our feet.

Some of us are still quite dirty
from walking.

Rabbi, what are you doing? –Please
sit. Everyone sit. –Where?

At your place at the table. –No,
I'm sorry, I just wasn't thinking of you.

I don't have to do this.
–I don't understand. –I'm sorry.

Friend, I need friends.
This dinner is our last one together.

Please, do as I tell you
and don't object this time.

Thank you, James.

Thank you.

It's okay, Tom.
Listen.

Are you sure? –Yes,
Little James, I'm sure.

Please.

How beautiful are the feet of those who bring
good news on the mountains,

who proclaim peace and
proclaim salvation.

Rabbi, I...

Thank you.

My turn, please sit.

Peter... -Lord, you would wash my feet.
No, this doesn't make sense.

What I am doing,
you do not understand now.

But later you will. -Teacher?

We should have done this ourselves,
and we are sorry for our pride.

But I tell you, you will never wash
my feet. –Brother, just do what he says.

Listen carefully.

Enough of that. –In the future,
you must trust me more

than ever, even if
you don't understand now.

I'm serious. If I don't wash
your feet,

You have no share with me. You
cannot be part of what I do.

Well, in that case, Lord, don't just wash
my feet, but also my hands and my head.

Sometimes Peter still stays quiet.

Peter, did you bathe
this morning? –I did.

Then only your feet
need to be washed now.

And that will be enough.

Please. Sit. Come on.

Unless you all understand, I'm not talking
about literal cleanliness, am I?

I'm giving you an example.

You call me Teacher and Lord.

And it is perfectly justified. If I,
your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet,

you also ought to wash
one another's feet.

When you go into the world to spread
my message, that is how you should lead,

as servants with humility.

You should set aside pride and ego
to love and serve others.

Friends and
enemies alike.

Enemies.

Even tonight.
-What does that mean?

What is this? –I'm almost done,
one moment. I don't want to forget.

Forget what? Why are you
setting the table? –My vision.

It must match my vision.
–Your vision, vision?

Do you remember three years ago? When
I told you, Adam gave me a dream.

What kind of house was it when we lived in
Bethany? –And when did you live?

Yes, I chose this house
because it matched your dream.

We had another one last night.
It was equally clear.

And I knew just as well that it was
from Adam and Mark.

Only time will tell if you are. –This
was clear. I saw three things.

This room with this table
just like this.

I also saw you.

I'm listening. –Two young men speaking to you.
And one said very clearly.

I still see him saying it.
"Our teacher's time is near."

And... -That's all he said. At least
as far as I saw. –I don't understand.

I also saw myself at the well.

Carrying a pitcher. –Now
that definitely doesn't make sense.

Your wife is the only one who goes
to the well. She's going later today.

I'm just telling you what I saw. –What
you saw. I understand. Let's go.

We're stopping by Solomon's Portico.

We'll see if there are any more
sermons today. Come on.

What?
–Our home has been vandalized.

But I believe in it. Don't you?
–It doesn't matter what we think.

That's the kind of thing that could
get us all into trouble.

If he were king, your house would have
already been broken into.

He is the Messiah. And he is the king of all.
–Don't say those words out loud.

Especially here. –Lately
something has been bothering you in your heart.

And in a dream... –This is a deception
and I cannot put my family in danger.

Please.

I'll bring the soap. Here.
Your wife is at the market.

Go get water for us to wash. Go.

Be ready for action and keep
your lamps burning.

And be like people waiting
for their master to return from a wedding

...so that they may open
the door for him immediately. When he enters.

Blessed are those servants whom
the master finds awake when he comes.

Truly, I tell you, he will dress himself
to serve and will have them sit at

the table... and he will come
and serve them.

You also must be ready because the Son
of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.

Stay awake.

What's next? Is this my
fifth sermon today?

I've been working since morning. People are leaving.
–Peter, they're following us. –They always follow us.

But there's a man standing
there with Kafni who's somewhere around here.

He's not good at hiding or he didn't think
I'd remember who he was.

Associates are with the Romans.

That's the man. Come on,
let's get out of here. Quickly.

What's going on? Hey, hey, hey,
what happened? –Don't say anything.

Is Jesus here?
–He's in the courtyard.

Well, we'll tell you what's happening soon.
We just don't want him to come in.

We don't want him to know. –James, He
knows everything. –What are they doing?

There was no room for the table
in the center.

We can't have leaven here.
This is a pagan house.

There are pagan stories out here.
We don't even know where to look for mold.

What do you suggest we do since we don't know
who to ask?

Come on.

Teacher, we don't want to disturb you and
bother you. Just a quick question?

You're not bothering me. Good to see you
Peter. I hear you've been preaching.

I'm glad to hear it. –Do you want me to
start preaching too? –You will, in time.

Was that what you wanted to ask?
–No, Passover begins tonight.

Passover. Already? –Yes,
that's why we're cleaning.

Every time. –Sorry. You got me.
–Come on. –They don't tell me these things.

Rabbi Phoebe's house is big,
but it's not really suitable for a Seder.

We'll do it somewhere else.

Peter, John. Go to the
south side of the house.

A young man with a pitcher of water will
meet you. –A young man.

I know that usually
women fetch water,

but that's how you'll know who
to follow. Go after him.

And wherever he enters, tell
the master of the house, the teacher says,

that my time is near. Where can
I eat the Passover with my disciples?

And he will show you a large, furnished,
and ready upper room. Prepare it for us.

Is that the answer to
your question? –Yes, it is.

You know, surprisingly detailed.

It feels strange now.

Trust me. Everything will
make sense in time. -We trust you.

Let's go get the others. And you? –It's okay.
I'd like to pray a little. –Of course.

No, don't sweep there, please.

That's it. Go with them. –And come back
with details. –I'll explain on the way.

Everyone, stop what you're doing
and come here. We need to talk.

We'd better hurry.
Passover is tonight.

We've barely started cleaning
the mold from the house.

We won't have dinner here.
–Thank God.

There's no way to make enough room.
No matter how we move the furniture.

Seriously, has this woman ever had
a dinner party?

I'll get straight to the point.
Ramon's father, Kafni.

People are following us,
following us. –You saw them? –Yes.

And they are allied with Roman soldiers.
–That's terrible news for us.

Are they armed?
–They will be.

Peter and John have gone to secure
a place for the Seder. And the time is coming.

You must not be seen as a group traveling
to that location. It's too dangerous.

What should we do? –Everyone
leaves at different intervals.

Go by a roundabout way, long
detours. –To confuse them.

Exactly. –When Thaddeus brings
the exact location, we'll make a plan.

Someone needs to tell Judah.
–Where is Judah? –He's gone out. –Where?

Am I my brother's keeper? –Oh, now
we're quoting Cain. Not a hundred.

It just occurred
to me. –What am I?

Explain the plan to him
when he gets back. –Okay.

What?

You are for yourself. –You're watching
him with him.

They picked me up and the girls with
songs, when you were passing

through the city behind them, but the crowds are
so large that they cannot reach you.

You were waiting, songs? –Everyone
is looking for Judah. You did it.

You really did it. –Did I? –You were
right. For once in your life, you were right.

And I don't believe that's the case.

He is truly The One. He is the
Messiah. And you are following him.

I will never regret trying
to dissuade you.

Well, you were just an older sister.

And you've made mistakes before.
–Nothing can be more wrong now.

He's here. –Judah.
I'm so proud of you.

I'm so proud.

I thought we wouldn't live to see
this day. Not tonight.

Tonight is the Seder. Do you have
a place to... -With him?

Of course. I shouldn't say
where. –Of course, of course.

I understand. You must be
sure for the big moment.

Do you know? When will it happen?
–When? –It must be soon. It must.

Deborah, I wrote something about the word
"soon." –It's not that. –I know you.

What? –I can tell when you're
hiding something. You know when it will be.

You know. –Well, I know. Of course.
But I can't say.

It must be tonight, right?

I mean, it would be in line with all
the Passover night prophecies.

My... My lips are sealed.

Don't just watch.
And wait. And watch.

This... I have to continue.
–Yes, you do.

Your whole previous
life story leads to this moment.

I'm so excited. I don't know
how I'll sleep tonight.

I... I don't know either.

Judah, you look worried.
–Me? No. No.

I'm fine. It's just... A lot is
happening, you know? –I can imagine.

No, I can't. I can't
even imagine. Go.

Go do what you must.

I will. I must. –You must.

I love you. –I love you.

You were there.

The name Iscariot is still not
forgotten.

I really did it.

Or... I will really do it.

I love you. I have to go. –Go.

Go. –Yes, look everywhere.
I don't know the right direction.

Yes, ma'am. –Thank you. Excuse me.

Can you direct us to the nearest
well in this part of town?

Just around that corner. –Thank you.

That must be him. –You think? –Should we
talk to him? –No, no.

We'd probably scare him off. We should
talk to the homeowner.

It's okay.

It's okay. –Jesus is the Messiah.
This is definitely the house.

You think?

Maybe not. –Only one way to
find out. –Wait, wait.

We don't know what kind of
enemies there might be.

We're following the man with the pitcher. And
that's the master of the house.

That is, go back and tell
the others where he is.

Shalom. –Shalom. –Are you
the master of this house?

Yes, but I had nothing to do with this and
we're cleaning it up. –Yes, we know it wasn't you.

You know who it was? Was it you?
–No. But we have a message.

A question from the person whose
name is written on your house.

Jesus. –How is that a question
for me? –Abba. –The teacher asks.

My time is near.

Where is my guest room where I can
eat the Passover with my disciples? –Abba.

These are the people from last night.

I have a moment. –Of course you do.
Think about where we started, Peter.

It feels like yesterday and like
a whole lifetime at the same time.

You and I were on those boats
together all night.

Before we met
the Creator of the universe.

Thanks for helping, by the way.
–It worked out well for me. –And for us.

And now we are preparing
the Seder dinner.

In the Holy City, with ten brothers,
which Christ himself will lead.

And he happens to be our Rabbi.

Do you think this bread
will be enough for him?

And you should know that the house
has been completely cleaned of any mold.

I checked again.
-Friends.

The Son of God has just
called us to follow him and come here.

You're good.

My dream was so clear.
This is what I saw.

Only... I can't believe
it's for him.

I saw this table in this room. –Yes,
yes. You told us. It's very exciting.

And you will be in this room.

Each of you. I ask for your
discretion. –Yes, you told us.

Yes, no one wants it
more discreetly than me.

I doubt it.

Good.

Good. There's more. I'll be back.

Yes. That's quite something. –God
gave him the vision. –I don't know what you said.

We are preparing what they said
was sent to Christ.

I'm with you, man.
–But also Mark's vision.

And how his father immediately agreed to host,
even though he was obviously paranoid.

This surely leads Adonai.
So clearly prescribed by Jesus.

So why aren't you smiling? –I was about
to ask the same thing.

I'm paying attention, Peter.

And I feel like I'm starting to understand him
better. Which draws us closer.

But I'm still missing something.

For example, why he arranged all this
tonight. And why we are here now.

Yes. But we still mentioned the table.

Yes. Although I'm not clear why.

But I understand this.

He is.
–He is.

You'd better open the door.
Faster, they're coming.

They must be in the back. –No!
We're not going down again!

Open the door! –Open the door!
–Open the door! –We'll fight.

We will die as martyrs like our brother before us.

Simon, help us!

No. Go out the back. I'll fight
alone. –But the mission is not over!

Micah! You will have many more
missions to fulfill.

Save yourselves so they
can fulfill them and

continue the work of the Fourth Philosophy.
We need people like you. Go!

No! You will sing songs about
your heroism. –I said go! Run!

Open! Again!

I won't need God.

Seven springs. Clean bronze
nails. The turtles are from Greece.

And they are determined. Do you hear?

Let your ears be turned
towards the place of grace.

Barnabas!

Shouldn't you be studying
for your exam? –I've been so busy.

I was just taking a break.

Something came to your mill today.

Thank you.

Friend, while you are probably at this
moment overwhelmed with academic evidence and

the work of others, our God is doing for you
what all the world's toil could not.

He makes you a friend
whom I miss very much.

A testament
to what heights people can reach.

And unique pain as a companion.

John says we are making the way
straight and wide. He is glorious.

But I don't want you
here. Not yet. Study hard.

The time will come for you to help
build this road.

Shalom, Shalom.
–Good.

Everyone is ready to start.

We have to stand there. We have to go.

I have no strength.
I need to rest.

Last time, I need these
paths to be wider.

What are you doing? Get out of the way.
Get out!

Hey! –There he is!

You! What right do you have on
this holy ground?

Approving our trees, displacing
Jewish citizens.

We are making way for the entourage.
A very important person is coming to town.

I will tell you about a very important
person who is coming to town.

Oh yes, you will. This is
another one of your prophets.

I don't want to hear it. –He didn't
ask if you wanted to hear it.

He is the voice of one
crying in the wilderness.

Prepare the way of the Lord.
Make his paths straight.

And I am the voice that tells you we are making
the right path for someone real.

Not from your imagination. –This
is beyond your imagination.

I advise you to be careful and humble.
For the one who is coming is stronger than I.

You are not even worthy to untie the strap of
his sandal. –And I am stronger than you.

So I'm getting my company out of here.

Even now, the ax is laid
to the root of the trees.

Every tree that does not bear good fruit
will be cut down and thrown into the fire.

Do you know why people don't
listen to people like you?

Because you speak in riddles.

I have come to bear witness to the coming
light to my people, the house of Israel.

But to you I would say, do not extort
anyone for money.

Threats are false accusations.

And be content with your wages.

Do you hear that? Be
content with your wages.

How much longer will you be like this?

No fishing today. –You have fish. –No,
I would like to. No, I have to go back.

To fish with my brother, I
can't be with you all the time.

We have to pay taxes.

Taxes are a human
creation born of a common

agreed-upon delusion that gold
has eternal value. –I like that.

And no, we won't be going much longer. –Thank God.

Even now, access has been made
to the root of the trees.

Do you know what that means?
It means the Messiah is here.

Somewhere near in Israel, around us,
waiting to begin his ministry.

Does this kingdom include food?

It includes fish. –When? –That's
a meaningless question. –I'm starving.

I'm so hungry I can't think
straight. –Why don't you say something? –Yes.

We have a lot of food. –So why
is it all around us then?

She is with us. –Not just any
food, but delicacies. –Wait. –What?

Fried in olive oil. Then dried.
Cooked with a little wild honey.

Andrew, I give you.

Can you take a look?

Passage. –Everyone look
to the side. –Passage.

Passage.

We want to tell you something.

Are you awake enough
to listen carefully?

Last night I went with your uncle's
judges

to reclaim the money
we owed for the calf.

We sold it to Toromai
and his sons.

There was an argument.
Toromai was rough.

His sons had weapons.

Judah was hurt, but not seriously.

I'll have to answer a lot of questions.

I stopped my uncle
from getting hurt.

Do you understand, Tom? I might not
see you for a while, but I love you.

I love you, Tom.
–Don't move!

Get down! –I love you,
Tom. –Don't move!

Do you hear me, Tom?

Go!

Go!

Sorry. Sorry. Sorry.

So... Soldier! Soldier! Are you
just going to stand there and do nothing?

I only intervene if weapons are
used or someone makes a disturbance.

This is a disturbance. I can't finish today.
I have to go home to wash. –No.

You can't even last
your first day at work.

There are many people
waiting for you to fall.

You probably won't find five
willing and qualified candidates.

In all of Capernaum.
–Probably correct.

What did you expect, for people to
congratulate you on your accounting?

I thought you were here to protect me.

If the money is threatened, that's a different
story. Now get back to work.

Hold the line.
Next, let's move on.

This is disgusting. –Then buy new
clothes. You can afford nicer ones now.

It's all part of the bargain.

Matthew. You lose friends,
but you gain money. –I have no friends.

Even better, you lose
nothing, you only gain.

Do you have a wife? –No. –You? –Yes.
A wife, a son, and a servant.

Now that I'll have money,
should I hire a servant too?

Well, we didn't exactly hire him.

It's a long story. Don't ask
questions about my personal life.

That's rude. –You asked if I was
married. –I can ask whatever I want.

I'll be watching for you when you get off work.
-No threats. Move along, rat.

Next person in line, hold for
a moment, back.

Listen up. You don't look like you've had
many fistfights. –What's that supposed to mean?

The last opportunity who
took this job, lost his teeth.

They caught him on his way home on the first
day.

I don't care if you get beaten to death
by your Jewish brother.

I don't care if you die in your sleep or
someone chases you down on a horse. You get the point.

But if something happens to you while you're working,
Quintus will punish me by

making me do your job until he finds a
replacement. And I don't like sitting.

And I don't like math. I'm a soldier,
a good soldier. Understand?

Then maybe you should protect
me at home too.

Not part of my job.

With the new salary you've received,
you'll hire a driver who can

smuggle you to and from
work in a cart hidden as cargo.

In fact, I've already arranged for him to
pick you up at the end of your shift today.

Next.

Gaius? –What?

Thanks for the driver. –I'm looking
out for my interests, hero.

I understand how to do this kind of job,
but there are many things in this

world that I don't understand
no matter how hard I try.

And for some reason people don't
explain it to me because they think I'm different.

I think there's something wrong
with me. –You're right about that.

Here, I'll tell you what I see.

But I promise nothing.

Excellent. I'm very proud of you.
You are well-prepared for your calling.

You will be good singers
in the synagogues of Israel.

Congratulations, Benjamin. In which
city are you taking the position of cantor.

Gilead.

A beautiful city.

And you, Hillel. –Chorazin. –Chorazin.
I believe in you and those highlands up there.

James, let me guess.
Maybe some small town.

Maybe Nazareth. Bethsaida.
–Jerusalem. –Very funny. Cana.

Magdala. Many open positions
in the north. –I said Jerusalem.

I will join
the 288. The Temple Choir.

James, come here for a moment.

A very fine voice, James.

I am proud to have been your teacher.

So where's the problem?

Read from here from
the third book of Moses.

No one who has a blemish,
blind or lame, or has

a d*sfigured face or an overly long arm
or a man with an injured foot,

or an injured hand or a hunchback,
a dwarf or a man with a defect in his side.

These are all just prohibitions for
the priest.

The descendants of Aaron. –I know.

Over time, they extended to anyone
serving in ritual temple services

visible to the public.

Okay, I'll stand at the back of the choir. No one
will even notice. –Sorry, James.

The Levi choir director has very strict
rules for the appearance of singers.

He will assume that either you
or your parents are sinners.

Were you born with that? –When he hears
me sing, he'll make an exception.

This is my calling.

I'll put Bethany. It's so close to
Jerusalem. Close enough, my boy.

Take what you can get. –I don't
need your certificate.

I'll go to Jerusalem and sing
for him personally. –James, be realistic.

I don't want you to travel to Jerusalem.
Only to have your dreams crushed.

Come on.

There we go.

No, no, come on.

I don't have any money.
I don't have any money. –It's okay.

I'm not trying to rob you.
Everything is fine. You're fine.

Thank God, I thought you were
a dead body by the side of the road.

My rabbi and I were passing by.

It's cold. You shouldn't be sleeping
on the ground without fire or shelter.

Where are you going?
–To Jerusalem.

You have a long way to go.

Yeah, what do you care?
–Hey, what's your name?

James.

First things first, James.
Let's light this fire.

Can you? –Yes, Rabbi.
–And then...

May I sit?
–Of course.

Okay.

Then... I'd love
to hear your story.

Why? Are you angels?

No.

I mean, no, we're not
angels. –Just craftsmen.

And you shouldn't be alone.

I'm just going
to Jerusalem.

Boys? –What is it?
–Nothing yet.

What? –Soldiers are coming,
approaching the house.

Clear.

Where is he?
How can he get lost?

He's the one who told you how to get here.
–He said he's lost.

Maybe he's just taking a really,
really long way. –Is he being followed?

Because he's being careful.
–What if these men caught him?

Maybe he's waiting
to make sure Jesus finds his way.

I'm very sure Jesus doesn't need Thaddeus
to show him the way.

Maybe Thaddeus didn't want to leave
Phoebe's house without Jesus.

I would have followed
Jesus from a distance and kept an eye on him.

Maybe that's exactly what Thaddeus is doing.

Never underestimate that kid.
```


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
