01x07 - Invitations

[♪ musical flourish ]

[stoking fire]

[Joshua clears throat]

- Joshua.

How many more in the night?

- Some , sir.

- Where will you bury them?

- The men are trying
to dig a trench,

but the ground
is hard and rocky.

With respect, Moses,
my concern is not for the dead,

but for the dying.

Hundreds fall by the day.

And for every serpent we k*ll
another ten appear.

- Maybe we should leave
the bodies here, in this tent.

- At the rate
people are dying,

there would not be enough room,

even if we stack them
to the top.

- Then we'll have to leave
and find someplace else.

- We're not leaving
anytime soon.

Too many are sick
and cannot walk.

- After today, the only Hebrews
too sick to walk

will be those
who choose to remain so.

- Is there medicine
in that bronze?

You told the people
that you would ask God

to forgive their rebellion,
to heal their serpent wounds--

- I did.

- Then why are you
hiding in a tent.

- It wasn't my idea,
Joshua!

- That is a pagan symbol.

You did not ask Him
if He was sure?

Maybe you misunderstood Him.

- I've learned to do what
He says without questioning.

You remember
what happened at Meribah.

- Just to be sure,

we could send a messenger
to Ezion-Geber, beg for aid--

- That pole...

Hand me that pole.

[straining]

- The people will say
it is a cruel joke.

- Let them say that.

- Help me understand.

None of this makes any sense.

- How do you explain
the Red Sea?

The manna and the quail?

The pillar of fire?

Joshua, any Israelite who looks
upon this bronze serpent

and believes in the power
of Adonai will be healed.

It's an act of faith...

not reason.

Faith.

[woman vocalizing]

♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water.

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪ Oh, child...

♪ Walk on the water.

♪ Got no trouble.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

[birds singing]

[door squeaks open]

♪

♪

[background noise]

- Gaius.

Why are you here?

- I'm escorting you.

- Because you feel indebted
for your promotion.

- You're complaining about
safely walking the streets?

- I didn't help Quintus
for you.

- Oh, I know.

You couldn't help yourself.

- I spoke up
because I was right.

- You got lucky.

- Luck doesn't exist.

- So, you knew Quintus
would not k*ll you?

- He was smart
to go after fishermen,

but he must have been desperate
to enlist Simon.

- I don't buy it.

You were terrified.

- Gaius,
what if you were suddenly

the only Roman in Capernaum?

- I think
I'd change clothes.

- Exactly.

When you realize that
nobody else in the world

cares what happens to you,
you think only about yourself.

- For a fool,
your brain has taken you far.

I admit it.

- I thought so, too.

[sighs heavily]

- Praise Adonai,
he's healthy and alive!

- What are you talking about?

- I received word
from Jerusalem.

Havilah gave birth to a son.

You're a grandfather again!

- So soon?

- A month early,
but all is well.

Oh, blessed be He!

We'll have the rest
of our things sent.

- What?
No, no, no!

My research here
is not completed.

- But, we have to make it back
in time for the bris,

we have only eight days.

Less than eight.

- The circumcision
can be performed

by any number of people, Zohara.

- Nico,
this is your own grandson!

- Fifth grandson.

Havilah will understand.

- Do you know what people
will say when they learn

that the Great Nicodemus missed
his own grandson's name day

because he was doing research
in Capernaum, of all places?

- Research that concerns
not just one Jewish boy

but all of Israel,
past, present and future.

- There is nothing
in Capernaum

but demoniacs
and insolent school boys.

Come to your senses.

- I have never been closer
to my senses.

- That is not how it looks
from the outside.

- Many things are not.

- I am ready
to leave this place, Nico.

I miss my children
and my grandchildren,

including the one
I haven't even met yet.

- Oh, Zohara--

You can't just barge--

- Oh, I believe I can.

- Praetor Quintus.

- Zohara, is it?

A pleasure to see you again.

- I trust all is well.

- Why would you trust that?

- Please, please,
do make yourself at home.

[whistles]

- We really will have to
discuss the people's tithing.

- This is why you've come?

- I need to know if
we have a problem, Nicodemus.

- I have complied
with every request

Rome has made of my office,

even when it infringed
on custom.

- Let me rephrase.

You and I want
the same thing.

We want rules followed,
we want order.

Soldiers, money, votes,
that's my world.

Demons, prayers, oddballs,
that's yours.

I need to know if our worlds
are on a collision course.

The so-called miracle worker.

- Jesus of Nazareth.

- Don't even know what
Nazareth is, but yes, Him.

- Anecdotes and rumors.

- And a stampede
in the eastern ghetto

that delayed Herod's envoy.

That really made me look bad.

I hate that.

- The unrest began
when your soldiers

waded into the crowd
brandishing weapons.

- It isn't an isolated event.

I've heard reports,

and my source has
an unwavering knack for accuracy

and a compulsion for the truth.

So, again I ask you...

is there a problem?

- No.

- You don't seem sure.

Maybe I could get better
information from this...

Shmuel?

He's very eager to see me.

- The only way to learn
this Preacher's intentions

is to speak with Him
directly.

- So speak to Him.

I hate crowds,

they take time and resources

and then the cleanup is a pain.

When you arrange
a private meeting,

I want to know when and where.

Understand?

- What troubles you
about this Man?

- Preachers have a habit
of becoming politicians.

They sprout up like weeds
and spread.

Your wife is a gardener.

She understands.

- Some flora spread
their seeds when trampled.

Who's to say you wouldn't
be creating a martyr?

- I'll take my chances.

- You sympathize
with this Preacher.

[sighs]

[birds singing]

[insects buzzing]

- Will we be safe here?

- What do you mean, safe?

- They'll be looking for us

because of what you said
about forgiving sins.

- Ah, we won't be here
very long.

After what happened yesterday,

we'll keep moving
from town to town.

- Is that what you want?

- What do you mean?

- To roam about,

not be able
to stay in one place?

- I want to do
the will of my Father.

And I want to spread
the message of salvation.

So, yes, I am happy
to not stay in one place.

- Rabbi?

- Yes, Thad.

- I should prepare firewood
for how many days?

- Uh...
five, I think.

- I thought you said that
we wouldn't be here very long.

- Leaving some
for the next weary traveler.

Hospitality isn't only
for people who own homes, John.

- Mary?

- Are you all right?

- Me?
Yes, thank you.

Uh, may I
speak with you, Rabbi?

- Yes, of course.

Keep going.

- I wanted to apologize
for yesterday.

- For what?

- I was trying to help
those people

get closer to the sound
of Your voice.

I had no idea
they would open the roof

and disrupt Your teaching.

I truly--

- You regret that a paralytic
is enjoying his first full day

on his own feet, huh?

- No, just that I caused a scene
and cut short Your teaching.

- Who's to say
it was cut short?

With their faith,

they would have
found a way

whether you brought them
to the roof or not.

- But, there's more.

When we were leaving,
a Pharisee stopped me

and asked for
a private meeting with You.

I told him I would ask.

- A Pharisee.

- Do you know this man?

- He visited me...
before.

- A Pharisee
in the Red Quarter, hmm?

- Rome sent him.

I doubt
he wanted to be there.

[chuckles]

No, I wouldn't think so.

- But I saw him again,
after I was better,

and he wanted to know
how I was healed.

Of course I didn't tell him
who You were,

but, he seemed...

- What?

- Earnest.

He wasn't offended to learn
that someone else had succeeded

where he had failed.

There was--there was a hunger
in his eyes, not fear.

- Not like the Pharisees
at the window yesterday, huh?

- I am sorry
to have brought all this on You.

- No, no.

No, there is a reason
you met this Pharisee.

- Nicodemus.

- Nicodemus;
of course.

I've heard of him.

- Oh, I don't know
who is known and who is not.

This is all new to me.

- Don't worry about which men
others think are important.

Send word to Nicodemus.

I will meet with him.

Little James
will know the location.

Thank you, Mary.

- Yes, Teacher.

Where are you going?

- To be alone.

I need to think.

And to pray.

- I will pray also.

That I have not put You
in terrible danger.

[laughs]

You have not.

In fact,
I have made plans already

for tomorrow night.

- Plans?

- Yes, spread the word.

A dinner party.

In the northern district,

the tall house
just past the arch.

- But that row of homes--

- I know the kind of people
who live there.

Trust Me.

- I will tell the others.

♪

[knocking]

[knocking]

- Matthew?

- Hello, Eema--

or--or--or Elisheva,
I mean.

Hello.

- Matthew.

- I don't receive visitors,
myself.

Is this a custom?

- If your father were here,
I couldn't do this.

- Where is Alphaeus?

- I think a dog
followed you.

- He's with me.

He'll stay out here
if you'll let me in.

- Will Alphaeus
be home soon?

- He's away on a work trip.

- Where would work
take him?

Does he no longer
make leather goods?

- His shop was robbed.

Many of the shops have been.

Crime is rampant.

It makes it very difficult
to reopen.

- He loved his shop.

- But we still have
a roof over our heads,

which is more than
some people can say.

- You can ask me for money
if you ever need it.

- How can you say that?

- It's quite common.

I've seen many parents
entirely dependent on--

- Your father would sooner die
than take your blood money.

- I know
you are ashamed of me,

but your decision
is irrational.

Rome will continue
to collect taxes no matter what.

I'm skilled with numbers--

- Did you come here
to justify yourself?

- No! No!

Everything's like sand...
in a flood.

The things I thought
I knew to be true--

- Are you in trouble?

- Do you think that
impossible things can happen?

That overturn
the laws of nature?

That cannot be explained?

- That is what people asked
when you were a boy.

Even the rabbis
were astonished

at your talent
for reading, math,

the way you could think
faster than any other child.

They thought you would
become someone great.

- Great at what?

I'm rich.

I have an armed escort.

I am trusted by
the Praetor of Galilee--

- We never dreamed

you would use the talent
God gave you

to bleed your people dry!

- But have you ever seen
anything miraculous?

- Matthew--

- My whole world...

everything I thought I knew...

What if it's wrong?!

- I think you should go.

You never even asked
about your sister.

- She looks well.

I came to celebrate Shabbat
a few weeks ago.

But then I left.

Good-bye, Eema.

[crying]

[metal scraping]

- Well, I'm not sure
this is a good idea.

JESUS:
Why not?

- Well, it could be a trap.

Nicodemus cooperates
with Rome.

They're the ones
who sent him to Mary

when she was possessed
in the Red Quarter.

- I'm well-acquainted
with risk, Simon.

So are you,

if I remember our first
meeting correctly, huh?

- Risk is his oldest friend,
I'm afraid.

[Jesus chuckles]

JESUS:
Simon...

Mary is an excellent judge
of character.

She has known some of
the worst kinds of men

in this world,

and she finds him earnest.

You should trust her instincts.

And Mine.

[distant coughing]

- Um...

ANDREW:
Rabbi...

I've got it.

- Ah, let's take a look.

- Can you keep her quiet,
please?

No one needs to know
Eema is sick.

- I can't tell her
not to cough, Simon.

- I just don't want
our burdens to become His, okay.

I don't want to be the one
to distract Him.

- He's made up
His mind about you.

He's not going to kick you
out of the group.

JESUS:
It's perfect!

Well done.

Though I think I could fit
all of you in here with Me, huh.

[chuckles]

- You won't
be recognized in that.

- Has the owner of the house
given permission?

- It's all arranged,
Rabbi.

And I'll be waiting
at the door.

JESUS:
Thank you, Andrew.

You go on ahead.

But remember to relax.

You are there
to guide our guest,

not to be My protector.

SIMON: Are you sure
you don't want me to come?

The more eyes watching the
streets for trouble, the better.

- Not tonight, Simon.

Stay here with your wife,
and your mother-in-law.

- You see?

- Mm...

ANDREW:
Welcome, Nicodemus.

Don't be alarmed.

He's waiting for you.

[woman vocalizing]

- I asked the owner
of this house for more lanterns,

but he said
they would draw attention.

- Yes,
I imagine they would.

- The human eye
is drawn to light.

We can't help it,
it just happens.

- There are many things
we are drawn to

without our thinking,

or our ability to explain why.

Thank You
for agreeing to meet.

- Thank you for trying
to help Mary when you did.

- I was no help.

- You were meant
to be there.

- Me?

So I could fail miserably
at an exorcism

in the Red Quarter?

- If you had not been there
that day,

would you be on this roof
tonight?

- I don't know
where to start,

I have so many questions I--

- Shall we sit first?

- Oh, yes, of course.

The eastern slums.

- Mm.

- Many wandering preachers have
succeeded in gathering crowds

with their rhetoric
and fiery tone.

- I heard a few of them
over the years Myself.

- So You know the type.

- Mm-hmm.

- But I have never heard
anyone tell a paralytic


to get up and walk,

much less
it actually happens.

- So, what is
your conclusion?

- I believe You are not...
acting... alone.

No one can do
these signs You do

without having...

God in Him.

Only Someone
Who has come from... God.

- And how is that belief
going over in the synagogue?

[both laughing]

Which is why
we're here at this hour.

What else?

- What have You
come here to show us?

- A kingdom.

- That is what our rulers
are worried about.

- No, not that kind.

- Then, what?

- A sort of kingdom
that a person cannot see

unless he is born again.

- Born... again?

- Yes.

- You mean
like a new creature,

a conversion
from Gentile to Jewish?

- No... no, that's not
what I'm talking about.

- Then, what is "born again"?

I hope You don't mean
return to the womb,

because that would be
a problem for me.

My mother,
may she rest in peace,

is dead.

- Truly, I say to you,

unless one is born of water
and the Spirit,

he cannot enter
the kingdom of God.

That which is born
of the flesh is flesh,

and that which is born
of the Spirit is spirit.

That part of you,

that is what must be reborn
to new life.

- How can these things be?

[sighs]

- A teacher of Israel,

and yet you do not
understand these things.

- I'm trying, Rabbi.

- I know, I know.

Do you hear this?

- What?

- Listen...

What do you hear?

[wind gusts]

- The wind.

- How do you know
it's the wind?

- Because I can feel it,

and I hear its sound.

- Do you know
where it comes from?

- No.

- Do you know
where it's going?

- No.

- That's what it is
to be born again of the Spirit.

The Spirit may work in a way
that is a mystery to you,

and while you cannot see
the Spirit,

you can recognize His effect.

[sighs]

- My mind is consumed
with thoughts

of what a stir
these words would cause

among the teachers
of the Law.

- Yes, and I do not
expect otherwise.

I speak of what I know
and have seen,

and it's not been received
by the religious leaders.

- It is hard
to receive.

- So, if I have told you
of earthly things,

and you do not believe,

how can I tell you
heavenly things?

- I believe Your words,

I just fear
You may not have a chance

to speak many more of them
before You are silenced.

- I have come to do more
than speak words, Nicodemus.

- More miracles?

- Yes, but even more
than that.

Do you remember
when the children of Israel

complained against God
and against Moses

in the wilderness of Paran?

- Yes; they wanted
to return to Egypt,

and they cursed the manna
that God sent them.

- And then?

- They were bitten by serpents
and they were dying.

- But...

- But, God made a way
for them to be healed.

- Moses lifted
the bronze serpent

in the desert,

and people only needed
to look at it.

So will the Son of Man
be lifted up

so that
whoever believes in Him

may have eternal life.

- Our people are not dying
from snake bites.

They're dying from taxation
and oppression.

- I'm sorry
to disappoint you,

but I did not come to deliver
the people from Rome.

- Then from what?

- From sin.

From spiritual death.

God loves the world
in this way...

that He gave His only Son,

that whoever
believes in Him

shall not perish
but have eternal life.

- So this has
nothing to do with Rome?

It's... all about...
sin.

- God did not send His Son
into the world

to condemn it, Nicodemus,

He sent Him to save it
through Him.

It's as simple as
Moses' serpent on the pole.

Whoever believes in Him
will not be condemned,

but whoever does not believe
stands condemned already.

- Have you ever heard
anything like this before?

- Shhhhh.

- When I met Lilith--
Mary--that day...

I told my wife
and my students...

she was beyond human aid.

Only God
could have healed her.

And then I saw her...
healed.

And here You are...

the Healer.

My whole life
I have wondered

if I would see
this day.

- Follow Me...

and you'll see more.

- Follow You?

- Join Me and My students.

In two days' time
we leave Capernaum.

Come see the kingdom
I am bringing into this world.

- But I can't--

- "I have a position
in the Sanhedrin,

You have family."

You are getting advanced
in years.

[both chuckle]

I understand,

but the invitation
is still open.

- Invitation to what,
exactly?

To lead a nomadic life?

To--to give up
who I am?

- It's true.

There is a lot
you would give up.

But what you would gain
is far greater and more lasting.

- Is this another one
of your "born again" mysteries?

[both laughing]

- Ah, maybe.

I know mysteries
aren't easy for a scholar.

Think about it, hmm?

Take your time.

On the morning
of the fifth day, we leave,

and we'll meet by the well
in the southern quarter

at dawn.

- Is this...

Is the kingdom of God
really coming?

- What does your heart
tell you?

- Oh...

My heart is swollen
with fear and--and wonder

and can tell me nothing

except that
I am standing on holy ground.

[chuckling]
Holy roof anyway.

[both laughing]

- I do hope you'll
come with us, Nicodemus.

You don't have to do that.

What are you doing?

- "Kiss the Son,

lest he be angry
and you perish in the way."

- And "Blessed are all
who take refuge in him."

[crying & sobbing]

[market noise]

GAIUS: Did you see the Parthian
foot races last night?

Darius ran like a gazelle.

- Jews don't go
to the foot races.

- Your old friend
Simon himself

used to run
the wagering tables.

- We're not friends.

Next.

[sighs]

- Okay, fine,
so you did not go to the races.

You stay home?

- I went to see my mother.

- Ugh...

that would
put me out, too.

She ask when you're going
to give her grandchildren?

- She didn't ask.

- I thought your parents
don't speak to you.

- I had questions
I couldn't ask anyone else.

- A mother of a son
with talent like yours

should be proud.

- She's ashamed that
I would use a talent God gave me

against God.

Next.

- You're good at something.

You found a way
to make a living doing it.

It's that simple.

- It must be nice to live
in a world so simply ordered.

- We live in the same world,
Matthew.

- Next.

- Besides, what else
are you going to do

with a mind like yours?

- Matthew.

- Matthew,
son of Alphaeus.

♪

- Yes?

- Follow Me.

- Me?

[chuckles]

- Yes, you.

- Whoa, whoa, whoa...

What are You doing?

- You want me to join You?

- Keep moving,
street Preacher.

- Do You have any idea
what this guy's done?

Do You even know him?

- Yes.

- Listen, I said--

[door slams & clatters]

What are you doing?

Where do you think
you're going?

- Gaius, let me go.

- Have you lost your mind?

You have money.

Quintus protects you.

No Jew
lives as good as you.

You're gonna throw it all away?

- Yes.

- I don't get it.

- You didn't get it
when I chose you, either.

- But this is different.

I'm not a tax collector.

- Get used to different.

I'm glad we passed by
your booth today, Matthew.

- Yes.

- Shall we?

We have a celebration
to prepare for.

- You will regret this,
Matthew!

- What's the tablet for?

- I grabbed it
without thinking.

I can put it back.

- No, no, keep it.

You may yet
find use for it.

- Where are we going?

- A dinner party.

- I'm not welcome
at dinner parties.

- Well, that's not going
to be a problem tonight.

You're the host.

♪

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪

[man vocalizing]

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪

[man vocalizing]

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
01x08 - I Am He
  

An exploration of the life of Jesus Christ through the perspective of those that interacted with him.
01x08 - I Am He

[♪ musical flourish ]

[heavy breathing]
[loud tapping]

- This is the spot,
my sons.

Shalom, my friend!

- I-I don't know
that word.

- It's something
my family says.

It's a greeting of peace.

- You won't find much
of that here, I'm afraid.

- I'm Jacob.

- I'm Yassib.

- Yassib, I would offer you
something to drink,

but as you can see, we have
just begun work on our well.

- You bought this land
from the sons of Hamor?

- For only qesitah.

Can you believe it?

- I believe it every time
the princes of this land

cheat another foreigner.

You will curse the day
you paid that qesitah.

- And what do you think
would have been a fair price?

- Zero qesitah,
zero goats, zero--

- I have sons
to work the land,

and once we strike water--

- You will never strike water.

Yes, recent rain
makes the land look lush,

but the underground river
runs around the mountain,

not up it.

- Our God takes care of us.

- This is Canaan.

The gods are not nice here.

- We won't be here
that long.

We are sojourners.

- Ah, and what are you
looking for?

- A land our God promised
my grandfather, Abraham.

- Your grandfather?

You ever notice how the gods
are always promising us things

but we never
really see them happen?

- Sometimes
it takes generations.

- Ah, suit yourself.

So, what is this god
of yours called, anyway?

- El Shaddai.

- I never heard of Him.

- Not many people have,

but I think someday they will.

- You have no home.

Where's your temple
for this god?

- He has no temple.

- Then where
do you worship Him?

- We build altars
wherever we go.

- You don't carry Him
with you?

- [chuckles] No.

There are no
carved idols of Him.

- So He's invisible?

- Yes.

Well, usually.

There was one time
He broke my hip.

- [laughs]
Oh, no, no!

I've heard enough.

Of all the gods you could
possibly choose from,

you pick an invisible God

whose promises take generations
to come true,

who makes you sojourn
in a strange places

and He broke your hip?

That is a strange choice.

Ah, immigrants...

- We didn't choose Him.

SON :
Father!

- He chose us.

[water sloshing]

[heavy breathing]

[jar clattering]

[heavy breathing]

[water splashing]

[woman vocalizing]

[woman vocalizing]

♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water.

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪ Oh, child...

♪ Walk on the water.

♪ Got no trouble.

♪

♪ Walk on the water.

♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

[market noise]

[groan]

[jars clatter]

[gasps for breath]

[sniff, deep breath]

[fire crackling]

[door opens]

[beads jingle]

- You know,
when the door opened,

I honestly hoped it was
a thief or a m*rder*r,

come to put me
out of my misery.

- Sorry to disappoint you,

but there'’s something
I need from you first.

[Neriah coughs]

- Come closer,
I can't see you.

Your hair is matted
and your face is red.

Why?

- You know why.

- If you came back
to live with me

you could go to the well
with the other women

in the cool of the morning.

- You're wrong about that.

I could go with them
if I had stayed with Ramin.

- Out with it.

How much do you need?

- I'm not here for money.

I've brought a bill of divorce.

All you need do is sign it.

- Only a man
can divorce his wife,

not the other way around,
Photina.

- Which is why the certificate
is in your name, Neriah.

- On what grounds
am I to divorce you?

- I'm living
with another man.

- So what?

That's all you did with me,
live here.

- You knew why
I married you.

- Stability.

The shine wore off quick,
didn't it?

- The Pentateuch
makes provision for a husband

to divorce his wife
if she lies with another man.

- Listen to you,
talking about Pentateuch.

- What do I have to do?
Bring him here?

- Yes, I want to see the
latest shade of drooling tomcat

you've put your spell on.

Hurry before he gets bored
like the others.

- Will you sign it or not?

- Give it here.

No.

- Please.

- Please?

[fire sizzles]

You're my property,
Photina,

and I don't part lightly
with my possessions.

[fire sizzles]

[laughter & light chatter]

- The way he ran
from the Red Quarter!

Nearly tripping on his robes.

[laughter]

- A Pharisee running.

Somehow, I can't see that!

- Shulaaaaaaa!

[laughter]

- I thought for certain
he would trip and fall

and I would be arrested.

- Knowing your luck, Rivka,
probably would happen, huh?

[agreement & laughter]

- I thought for certain Lil
was gone forever that day.

- It's Mary now.

- Always was.

- Does anyone
want any grapes?

Barnaby, you eat a lot.

[laughter]

- Very observant, Matthew.

- Thank you.

Simon?

- You know, Matthew, when
you're not behind iron bars,

you're quite handsome.

- I agree.

- Rivka!

[laughter]

YUSSIF:
What is going on?

- May I help you?

- We were just on a walk
and we heard voices

and I thought it sounded like...

but surely not.

- And yet it is You.

- Would you like to come in?

- We would never--

never be caught dead in a--

- In a what?

A tax collector's house?

YUSSIF:
Not only that,

but with... a...

Do you know what she...

and he... they are--

- You seem to be having trouble
finding your words, man.

- Why does your Master eat
with tax collectors and sinners?

- It's not the healthy
who need a doctor, but the sick.

- I must say I am shocked.

She is from the Red Quarter,

much of what is done there

cannot even be spoken
by my tongue or cross my lips,

it is so unholy.

The mere mention of it
would defile me.

- Sounds like
a personal problem.

- But him,
and the others he works with,

they betray our people
for money.

And they're not even sorry.

- If you're so offended,
then leave.

- Let them speak, Andrew.

- They've never offered
guilt sacrifices in the temple.

- What?

PHARISEE:
The priest keeps records.

We check them.

- Tax collectors
are not welcome at the temple.

- You would like them better

if they made
the proper sacrifices?

- This is not about me,
this is about what God wants.

- You are forgetting
the scroll of Hosea, hmm?

Go and learn what this means:

"“I desire mercy
more than sacrifice."”

- There are righteous men
on the lookout for you,

and they are weighing
every word you say.

- Is that a threat?

- Please let them
know this, Yussif.

I have not come to call
the "righteous,"

but sinners.

- Is everything
under control here?

- Yes, we were just
going on our way, centurion.

- That's Primi Ordine
to you.

- Primi Ordine.

- You all keep eating.

I will talk to this man.

Gaius.

- You're making a mistake.

You can walk away from this.

- I made my choice.

- Look at that room.

Other than Rom and Jahaz,

whom I know to be
law-abiding tax collectors,

everyone else in there...
the dregs of Capernaum.

- Gaius,
lower your voice.

- The bottom of the barrel.

- Germanic, correct?

Isn't that what
you told Quintus?

- Don't change the subject.

- Your people surrendered...

I'm surrendering, too.

Your promotion was well-earned.

You will do well without me--
better, even.

- Mm, how?

You're the one
who got me promoted.

- That is untrue.

- Do not play dumb.

You know how this all happened.

- You could say thank you.

- Well, I'm not
going to do that.

- Well, if you can't say it,

then there's something
you could do to show it.

I will pay you if necessary.

- I don't want your money.

What is the favor?

- You have not rehearsed
your speech for me.

- It's nothing.

- They want to honor you

for the great things
you have done here.

Give them a thrill.

- My remarks
will be extemporaneous.

- You are one
of those rare men

who excels in both rehearsed
and unrehearsed speech.

- And you are not guilty
of bias, are you?

- Those are not my words.

- Oh?

Caiaphas said that about you
at our last Shabbat dinner.

- He was just flattering.

- There is no one above
the high priest but God.

What has he to gain from you
by flattery?

He has never complimented
my cooking.

[Nicodemus laughs]

Do you remember,
at that final dinner,

when Eliav sang to Havilah?

She was glowing.

His voice the sweeter
for the child in her womb?

- Brought tears
to my eyes.

- Can you picture
Moshe and Gideon,

their little chins
resting on the table,

when you say
the Eshet Chayil?

That's the way Shabbat
was meant to be:

family knit together
around a table,

my mother's gilded plates,

your grandmother's candlesticks,
may she rest in peace.

- I do miss her.

- If she could see you now,

receiving the highest honor
ever bestowed by our order.

She would burst with pride.

- I remember
the inscription she had

over the doorway of her room:
"Adonai El Roi."

The Lord...

TOGETHER:
...the God Who Sees Me.

- The words of Hagar.

- She always loved
that Hagar was caught up

in something complicated
and fraught,

but not of her choice.

And yet God saw her.

He knew the path
she was forced to take

would not be an easy one.

- When we stumble
onto hard roads,

He finds us and comforts us.

- Or does He call us
to them?

- Persian myrrh
and camphor.

To commemorate
our last day in Capernaum.

- One last day...

[shuddered breaths]

- Nicodemus...

I love our life.

- As do I.

- Take me back to it.

- I...
I've changed my mind.

I-I will--ahem--
prepare my remarks.

I will need a moment.

QUINTUS:
Gaius.

- Praetor.

- Just the man
I've been waiting to see.

Get in here.

- What methods are we using
to quell and disperse mobs

that obstruct traffic?

- Regular patrols,
mounted officers...

when necessary, force--

- Not enough force.

And what use
are mounted officers

if the people have never
seen anyone trampled?

- Praetor?

- Herod's envoy was delayed.

He was a childhood rival--
you were there.

I asked Matthew,

he said show him
some infrastructure plans.

- I hope it was
effective, Dominus.

- Very.

Until Silvius was delayed
by a stampede on his way out.

I had to endure
a very smug lecture.

Don't let that happen again!

- Yes, Praetor.

- Mmm...

I see you are alone.

I assume that means
you've found a replacement

to watch our little friend.

- A new soldier has been
trained and installed.

- Good.

- And I am
reviewing applications

for a new publicanus
for that district.

- What district?

- The collection district
previously assessed by Matthew.

- Why are you doing that?

- Matthew left.

He quit, Dominus.

- What do you mean,
he quit?

Why would you let him quit?

- He is a contractor.

I-I had no recourse.

[object slams]

- Quit to do what?

- He is to become a student.

- Of what?!

Don't make me keep
asking questions, Primi.

- He is to study
the Jewish God.

He left to follow a holy man,
the man from the eastern ghetto.

That--that is all I know.

- Oh, I really
don't like that man.

BIG JAMES:
Brothers!

Extra food from my eema,
and she made more.

She's convinced
we will starve along the way

with six days of walking, huh?

- Three.

- Three?

- Are we going to run
all the way to Jerusalem?

- That won't work for Simon...
he's a terrible runner.

- Well, I have bad shins.

- Well, maybe if you
didn't get in fights

with Abe and Jehosaphat
every week--

- Easy...
easy, boys, huh?

- My fighting days are over.

- Simon, you seem quiet
this morning.

- We have
a long journey ahead.

- Apparently only
half as long as we thought.

- I'll explain later.

Simon,
what troubles you?

- Nothing,
just excited for the trip,

you know, I...
[mumbles]

- You can tell me the truth.

- You're telling me

You don't already know
what's in my head?

- That's a conversation
for another time.

But for now...

- I'm the only one among us
who is married.

- Ah!

So you think I should have
only called single people?

- Of course not.

And I'm glad you didn't.

But...

Eden will be alone
with her eema.

- You're scared
things could get worse

and you wouldn't be there.

- See?

That's what I mean,
You already know anyway.

- Simon, everyone here
knows what you're thinking

most of the time.

It does not take God's wisdom.

Hmm?

[Nicodemus sighs]

- Congratulations on your
profound contribution, Rabbi.

We are forever in your debt.

- Praise Adonai.

SHMUEL: The ceremony
was glorious, teacher.

Your acts of faithfulness
and discernment

have been duly recorded
for all history.

- Thank you, Shmuel.

I am grateful
for your service as well.

- Thank you.

- I foresee you will be
an important leader in our order

for many years to come.

- Maybe not just here
in Capernaum, Rabbi.

Perhaps, I will one day
teach across Judea.

Maybe even in Jerusalem.

- Perhaps you will, Shmuel.

- It's not such a ridiculous
notion, is it, Rabbi?

I have studied under your
venerated tutelage, after all.

As your reputation grows,
so, too, do my own prospects.

- I think it is, perhaps, bold
to assume outcomes.

Our work is for God.

He chooses where it takes us.

- You're right,
as always, Rabbi.

But under your guidance...

I've found a matter of law
I'm deeply passionate about.

One that resonates
with many others,

even as far away as Jerusalem.

- I'm delighted
to hear your fervor, Shmuel.

Tell me, what is it that you've
become so passionate about?

- False prophecy.

When I heard the Man
from Nazareth

tell the paralytic
his sins were forgiven,

I thought,
"“Only God can forgive sins."”

At that very moment, He turned
to me and recited my thoughts

as if reading them
from a scroll.

I felt the same.

Did He use divination,
I wondered?

But it's obvious--of course,
I would think this thought.

He called Himself
the Son of Man--

as if from the prophet Daniel--
here, in the town of my order.

- He comes from Nazareth,
not heaven!

- "...to him was given dominion
and glory and a kingdom,

"that all peoples, nations,
and languages

should serve him--"

- He's simply a man.

I don't understand it
any more than--

- "His dominion
is an everlasting dominion,

"which shall not pass away,

and his kingdom one
that shall not be destroyed."”

The Man claimed to be God
and you said nothing.

I will petition Jerusalem,

requesting permission
to search the archives

for all matters pertaining
to such false prophecy.

Will you oppose
my petition, Rabbi?

The question on the mind

of every man
who reads my account

will have to be,
"What did Nicodemus do?"

- So, it's all about politics
and promotion for you, isn't it?

It's not to serve God.

- On the contrary, Teacher,
it's about the law.

And the law... is God.

If I'm rewarded for that,

it's because I learned
from the very wisest.

- I will not
oppose your petition.

And, Shmuel...

you have learned nothing
from me.

[coughing]

[moans]

- Where is Simon?

Can he build us a fire?

- He's away, Eema.

- [coughs]
Fishing?

- No, something else.

[Dasha coughs]

Lie still.

[coughing continues]

[softly crying]

[Dasha Coughs]

JESUS:
Eden.

- Jesus?

I-I wasn't expecting you here.

- People usually aren't.

- Can I get you
something warm to drink?

I was just stoking the fire...

- You saw it first,
you know?

- What do you mean?

- What I see in Simon.

You were the first person
to notice, when no one else did.

That connects us.

- My mother said
I was drawn to his wildness

and that I would regret it.

I wonder what she would say now?

- We're going into town
to sell these nets,

we'll be right back.

- Stay here a moment, Simon.

- I just want to leave
some extra money behind

for Eden and Eema
while I'm away.

- Put your nets down, and
go sit with your mother-in-law.

[Dasha coughs]

It's all right.

[sighs]

I told Simon to make sacrifices
and leave things behind

in order to follow me.

You are one flesh with Simon.

He cannot make sacrifices
that are not also yours.

You have a role to play
in all of this.

- Do I?

- You will know in time.

[Dasha coughs]

I can't make everything
about this easier for you.

- That wouldn't
be our people's way.

- [laughs] No.

It has not been...

nor will it continue to be.

But I see you.

Do you understand?

I know it is not easy
to be at home

when your husband is out
doing all of... this,

even when you're excited
about it and proud of him.

So, I wouldn't ask you
to do this

without taking care
of a few things.

[Dasha coughs]

- You mean--

- Plus, normal Simon
is difficult enough,

you think I want to travel
with a worried Simon?

[both laugh]

- No.

- No, I do not.

[laughs]

- The fever's spiked.

Her forehead burns my hand
to the touch.

- We should get a doctor.

- There is no need.

♪

Leave her!

[gasps]

- Who are You?

ANDREW: This is Jesus
of Nazareth.

- You've never
met Him before.

- Welcome to
my son-in-law's home.

- Thank you.

- What am I doing lying here--

- You had a terrible fever.

- --and all of you
staring down...

- Dasha, don't--

- No one move.

I'll be right back
with some drinks.

Andrew, be a dear
and come stoke this fire.

[others laughing]

- Coming.

DASHA: Let's see--
rye and butter for Simon,

pomegranate arils...

- Thank You.

- ...goat cheese.

- Thank You.

- Does your friend
like goat cheese?

- Yes,
I love goat cheese.

Maybe I should...
yeah...

see about the goat cheese.

[Eden laughs]

- Thank you.

- Me?
For what?

- For obeying
and following Him.

It brought Him here.

DASHA: Simon!
Nectarines or plums?

[background voices]

- Ha-ha!
You're a liar!

I know you are,
I know that...

[background voices]

SELLER:
We don't serve your kind here.

- And what kind is that?

- You know what you are.

- Well, lucky for you...
[coins clink]

I can serve myself.

You know, to stop me
you'd have to look at me.

[background voices]

- Take down this decree
in Aramaic, Latin and Greek,

so no one can plead ignorance.


"By order of Rome,

"and punishable by detention
and imprisonment...

"religious gatherings outside
the synagogue and Hebrew school

"are strictly prohibited.

[hammer pounding]

"The teacher known
as Jesus of Nazareth

is sought for questioning."

[door creaks open]

[door slams shut]

[woman vocalizing]

[door slams shut]

[woman vocalizing]

♪

♪

♪

- This should be everyone.

- Everyone's here?

- Yes, this is all of us.

- Is there anyone else?

[shaky breaths]

- Look at this.

[coins jingle]

- What is it?

- I don't know,
let's find out.

- Gold.

- A friend of mine
left that for us.

- It's enough for two weeks
of food and lodging.

- You came so close.

- What do you mean?

- We need to go,

if we're to make it to a camp
in Tiberias by nightfall.

- Simon is correct.

Let's go.

[Nicodemus sobs]

- You gonna wear that...
on a trip?

- These are my clothes.

Should I have others?

- Ayy...

[Nicodemus sobs]

[loud knocking]

- Hello.

ALPHEUS:
Elisheva, who is it?

A Roman.

[glass breaking]

- What's wrong?

What happened?

What did it mean--
"Follow me?"

- That is all He said.

Matthew did not hesitate.

- Follow Him where?

- Look, I'm sure
he will come to his senses.

- [laughs]
His senses?

Do you know my son?

- Do you?

At the moment he believes
this Man to be a prophet.

- The Man who healed the
paralytic at Zebedee's house!

- I'd be careful
with that word "healed."

We don't know what sort
of trickery or illusion

may have been involved.

- Matthew has no interest
in illusion.

- Nor in your God...
or so I thought.

- Matthew upended his life
to be with Him.

His wicked life!

- He does not make
decisions lightly.

- That is true.

- When I saw him
two days ago,

he did not seem himself.

But I never would've guessed
that he was preparing for this.

- He asked me
to deliver to you

some of his personal effects.

- Adonai in heaven...

- The key to his house.

- Luxury bought
off the backs of my people...

I will not accept it!

- He suspected as much.

Sell it, give it away,
burn it down--I do not care.

Don't burn it down.

- Hmm.

- The other is just outside.

- Matthew!

- What?

Why?

[dog panting]

- Matthew said
thieves forced you

to close your business?

- Yes, but...

- And you've been taking
long journeys for your business?

- Yes.

I have all my permits.

- Don't you get it?

The roads are dangerous.

Your wife is left
for long periods of time alone.

People with bad intentions
hate him.

- I...

[sighs]

How does it work?

- One last thing--

if you hear from him or receive
any word of his whereabouts,

contact me immediately.

- Is he wanted?

- Not officially.

But if Jesus of Nazareth
returns to Capernaum,

the Praetor would like to...
question Him.

It would be in everyone's best
interest if you contact me.

- We understand.

- And I just want you to kn--

Well...

I know some people that
were mildly fond of your son.

- Mmm.

[both laughing]

[dog whines]

[panting]

- Hungry?

Almost there.

- What city's that?

- Jezreel.

The southernmost town
in Galilee.

From there we veer east
to the Jordan River.

- Rabbi,
where are you going?

- Do you need something?

- This way, friends.

- I'm sorry, but the map shows

that Jezreel is two miles
southeast of here,

and is met by a road
east to the Jordan.

We need to adjust our course
degrees to--

- We're not going
to the Jordan.

We're going through Samaria.

- Are you telling a joke?

- There's a place
I want to stop.

Plus, it makes our journey
shorter by almost half.

- And our odds of violent attack
more likely by double.

- Is that an exact figure?

- Forgive me, Teacher, but
it's safer to go around Samaria

by way of the Jordan
in the Decapolis.

- Did you join me
for safety reasons?

- But, Rabbi,
they're Samaritans.

- Good observation,
Big James.

What's your point?

- Rabbi, these were the people
that profaned our temple

with the dead bones,
they hated us.

- They fought against us
with the Seleucids

in the Maccabean wars.

I've never even spoken
to a Samaritan--

- And we destroyed their temple
years ago.

And none of you here

were present
for any of these things.

Listen...

if we are going to have
a question-and-answer session

every time we do something
you're not used to,

it's going to be a very annoying
time together for all of us.

We'll be fine.

And if we get attacked,

Simon will be happy
to show us what to do.

- Absolutely!

- Right,
so follow me.

♪

♪

[woman vocalizing]

♪

- We ate the last
of Salome's bread last night.

- Master, we need to go
into town for food.

- We can use the gold that
was left for us at the fountain.

- Very well.

- There's a town
about a mile west, Sychar.

- You all go.

I'll wait here.

- Someone should stay
with you... in case.

- I'm all right.

Meet me at that well
when you come back.

♪

♪

[wind blowing]

[exhales forcefully]

[woman vocalizing]

- Would you give me a drink?

Did you hear me?

- That bad, huh?

- What?

- You, a Jew,

ask for a drink from me,
a Samaritan?

And a woman?

- I'm sorry.

I should have said,
"Please."

- You know, it's not safe
for you to be alone out here.

- Nor you.

Why haven't you come
with others?

And why so late in the day?

Don't women go to the wells
in the cool of the morning?

- Yeah, well,

none of them
will be seen with me,

so I have to come at noon
in the heat,

as you have
so kindly reminded me.

- Why won't they
be seen with you?

- Long story.

[Water splashing]

- I'd still like
a drink of water,

if you can spare it.

- Amazing what
a parched throat will do.

Aren't I unclean to you?

Won't you be defiled
by this vessel?

- Maybe some of my people
say that about your women,

but I don't.

- Yeah?

And what do you say?

- I say
if you knew Who I am,

you'd be asking Me
for a drink.

- Really.

- And I would give you
living water.

- Would...

except that You have nothing
to draw water with,

and this is a deep well.

Besides,
what do You need from me

if You have Your own supply
of "“living water"”?

- Long story.

- But Jewish water is better
than Samaritan water, hmm?

- That's not what I said.

- Are you a better man
than our ancestor, Jacob,

who dug this well?

Your water is better than his?

- I know Jacob.

And everyone who drinks
this water will thirst again.

But whoever drinks the water
that I give him

will never be thirsty again.

- Wouldn't that be nice.

- The water I give
will become in a person

a spring of water
welling up to eternal life.

Really.

- Yes, really.

- Prove it.

- First, go and call
your husband, then come back.

I will show you both.

- I don't have a husband.

- You are right.

You've had five husbands...

and the man you're living with
now is not your husband.

- Ha-ha-haa!

I see.

You're a prophet.

You're here to preach at me.

- No.

- Usually the one good thing
about coming here alone

is I can escape
being condemned.

- I'm not here to condemn you.

- I've made mistakes...
too many.

But it's men like you who have
made it impossible for me

to do anything about it.

- How?

- Our ancestors worshipped
on this mountain,

but you Jews insist Jerusalem is
the only place for true worship.

- They say that
because the temple is there.

- Yeah, exactly
where we're not allowed.

- I'm here
to break those barriers.

And the time is coming
when neither on this mountain

nor in Jerusalem
will you worship the Father.

- So where am I supposed to go
when I need God?

I've never received anything
from God,

but I couldn't thank Him
even if I did.

- Anywhere.

God is spirit.

And the time is coming,
and is now here,

that it won't matter
where you worship,

but only that you do it
in spirit and truth.

Heart and mind.

That--that is
the kind of worshiper

He's looking for.

It won't matter
where you're from...

or what you've done.

Do you believe what
I'm telling you?

- Until the Messiah comes,

and explains everything
and sorts this mess out,

including me,
I don't trust in anyone.

- You're wrong

when you say that you've never
received anything from God.

This Messiah you speak of.

I am He.

The first one was named Ramin.

You were a woman of purity
who was excited to be married,

but he wasn't a good man.

He hurt you,

and it made you
question marriage

and even the practice
of your faith.

- Stop it.

- The second was Farzad.

On your wedding night
his skin smelled like oranges,

and to this day,

every time you pass by
the oranges in the market,

you feel guilty for leaving him,

because he was the only truly
godly man you've been with,

but you felt unworthy.

- Why are you doing this?

- I have not revealed Myself
to the public

as the Messiah.

You are the first.

It would be good
if you believed Me.

- You picked
the wrong person.

- I came to Samaria
just to meet you.

[woman sobs]

Do you think it's an accident

that I'm here in the middle
of the day?

- [sobs]
I am rejected by others.

- I know...

but not by the Messiah.

- And you know
these things

because you are
the Christ.

- I'm going
to tell everyone.

- I was counting on it.

- [laughing]
Spirit and truth?

- Spirit and truth.

- It won't be all
about mountains or temples?

- Soon...
just the heart.

- You promise?

- I promise.

- This Man told me
everything I've done!

Oh, He must be the Christ!

[laughing]

- Hey, wait!

[woman laughs]

- Your water!

- You forgot your--

- Come see a Man who told me
everything I ever did!

[Jesus laughing]

- Uh, Rabbi, we got food;
what would You like?

- Ah... I have food to eat
that you do not know about.

- Who got You food?

- Wait a minute.

You told her?

- Mm-hmm.

- And she can tell others?

- What food?

- My food is to do the will
of Him who sent Me

and to accomplish His work.

- You told her Who you are?

- Mm-hmm.

-So does that mean...

- It means we're going
to stay here for a couple days.

It's been a long time
of sowing,

but the fields
are ripe for harvest.

- And so, it's time?

- Let's go.
