02x06 - Unlawful

[♪ musical swirl ♪]

[rocks clattering]

- The fever
hasn't broken yet.

It's five days now.

- He will heal;
he always does.

- And what if our oldest son
doesn't heal, hmm?

- That is why I must
teach Abiathar

how to make
the shewbread today.

- Our family's share
in these secret traditions

of Aaron's priestly lineage
will be damaged otherwise.

- Yes, yes, Yafa,
I'm aware.

- It's yet one more
in a never-ending string

of family curses.

- You...

always thinking
in catastrophes.

- And, you, always thinking
it's another sunny day.

- Send for the boy.

AHIMALECH:
Twelve cakes,

one for each of the tribes
of Israel.

- But if the bread
is still here,

why didn't God eat it,
Abba?

- God doesn't need food.

It's called
the Bread of the Presence

because
it's a reminder

of His Presence
in our lives,

a symbol that
He sits at our table,

dwells in our midst.

- What happens
to the old bread?

- In the Law of Moses
it was written that

"Aaron and his sons
shall eat it in a holy place,

since it is for Him
a most holy portion

out of Adonai's food offerings,
a perpetual due."

- I always wondered where you
and Saba went every Shabbat!

AHIMALECH:
Yes!

We come here to eat the bread
that has been removed--

provided neither of us

has lain with his wife
that morning.

- Don't you lay with Eema
every night, Abba?

- [chuckles] Um... that is
a discussion for another time.

But, for now,

we must replace this
with the hot bread

as an offering
to Adonai.

Reuben.

- Simeon.

- Levi

- Judah.

- Ahimalech--

- Abiathar,
go home.

Tell your mother
I sent you,

and that everything's
going to be fine.

- Listen, I--

- Why are you
alone?

Where's your
protection?

- The King has sent me
on a mission

and said that no one is
to know anything about it.

I've arranged to meet my men
in a certain place.

- David, it's my understanding
you and the king

are not on
friendly terms.

- I've been sent on
a mission from the King.

Please.

I haven't eaten
in days,

and I know my men
haven't either;

they're in hiding.

We could make do with
five loaves of bread, anything.

- I have
no ordinary bread.

- What about that, that was
replaced by the hot bread?

- It's still
holy bread.

You know
the Law of Moses!

- And I know
the pikuach nefesh.

- Have the men kept
themselves from women?

- Truly they have,
and always.

They've been
in hiding at Gibeah,

waiting for me
for days.

- We must be quick.

So, remember...

what I'm about to give you
is sacred.

- Life is more sacred
than bread.

- If Saul finds out
I helped you,

I won't get
to keep mine.

- I know.

- And I'm not sorry.

Something is going
to come through you.

I can feel it.

Something bigger
and more exciting,

I don't know what.

- There was nothing bigger or
more exciting than that giant.

- We'll see.

♪ ♪

(woman vocalizing)

♪ ♪

♪ Oh, child,
come on in. ♪

♪ Jump in the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble
with the mess you been. ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Oh, child... ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ Got no trouble. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪

♪ ♪

♪ Walk on the water. ♪♪

[background market sounds]

Pfft!

[horse whinnies]

- Matthew?

I am thankful before You,
Lord our King,

for You have mercifully
restored my soul within me.

Great is
Your faithfulness.

[grunts]

MATTHEW:
Are you hungry?

[paper rustles]

- What did you do
to yourself?

- Oh.

Oh! [gags]

- That's disgusting.

Did you not put down new hay
before lying down?

- No,
did you?

- Of course,
I did.

MATTHEW:
My mind is racing.

I guess I wasn't
paying attention.

[softly praying]

If we split up today,

we'll be able to
cover more ground.

- We're not
splitting up.

- It would be
more logical--

- Jesus wants you back
in one piece.

Did you say
there was breakfast?

- No, I asked
if you were hungry.

Do you know
how to make eggs?

- No.

- Boil water.

Put the eggs
in the water.

- No, no, no, no.

- What is it?

- Well, I'm not a cook,
for starters.

- Neither am I.

But we must
sustain ourselves.

While you make eggs,
however you like them,

you can also devise
our plan for the day...

with me.

- Fine.

You know, we may have to
consider the possibility

that she went somewhere
other than Jericho.

- Ephraim or Bethel?

No, too much wilderness
to cross between camp

and either
of those places.

She's most comfortable
in cities.

- Ah, you think
she's still here?

- I do.

We must analyze her history,
what she normally does.

- Lately--
before this--

all she did was study Torah
with you and Ramah.

- I checked
the synagogue,

the officials said
they hadn't seen her.

- How did you
describe her?

- How would you?

- She's got black hair.

- Long black hair.

- All our women have--

- Sometimes she can't
even cover it all.

She might be inconsolable,
or distressed.

- Anything else?

- Unusually pleasant
to look at?

You'll want to add the water
to the pot before it heats up.

- Okay, Matthew.

Are you all right?

- Just another night
at The Nomad.

- The Nomad?

- I can't believe
I made it up the stairs.

Dionysus carried me.

- Whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!

- Hey.

Paws off,
rat.

- Anyway,
where were we?

Oh, yeah, you gave a description
of Mary to the official--

- What did he say
about stairs?

- What flowers
can you eat?

- Rose, borage,
dandelion--

a little tangy,
but who's going to complain?

- How do you know so much
about edible flowers?

- My family has been poor
my whole life.

You learn what the earth
can give you.

- But your Son is--

- My Son is
a homeless nomad

Who no longer brings in
income from carpentry.

- And you're smiling
about it.

- I'm smiling because He is
doing what He was born to do,

and maybe sometimes
that means

we will be hungry
for a few days,

but at least
His time has come.

- If His time
has come,

why doesn't He just
bring Mary back?

- It doesn't work
that way.

- And how
does it work?

- Sometimes, He is as much
a mystery to me as He is to you.

- Oh, berries!

Poison.

- We lived in Egypt
when Jesus was a boy.

One of their gods
was called Thoth,

whom they believed they could
compel to grant their wishes

if they performed
rituals.

It's not like that
with our God;

why would it be
with Jesus?

- Nothing good can come
from Mary disappearing

like this.

- Do you know that?

- She was already upset
about something

even before the possessed man
came into camp.

- Simon and Matthew
are competent searchers.

- They do not like
each other.

- They'll have to
work together.

- She could be dead or dying
in a ditch somewhere!

Why would Jesus
use her pain

to unite two men who are
annoyed by each other?

- We do not know
that she's in danger.

- She's a woman alone!

She's either
in a savage wilderness,

or a depraved town
patrolled by Romans.

- Ramah,

some trust in chariots
and some in horses.

TOGETHER: But we trust
in the name Adonai our God.

- I want to be a teacher
like Mary someday.

I want to be able
to write my thoughts.

- You will.

- Not if she doesn't
come back.

- We can't fix anything
by worrying about it.

Lavender!

- Can you eat lavender?

MARY MAGDALENE:
Nine for Shoob.

- Nine is too much.

- I came in here with
a single shekel to my name,

and now look at
this pile, huh?

- How did you get
the first one, woman, hmm?

What'd you have to do
for it?

- Wouldn't you like
to know.

- Hey, are we going
to play or what?

- Get on with it.

[knucklebones jingling]

Watch and learn, boys,
watch and learn!

Hie!!!

[knucklebones clatter]

[all groan]

First time, Hohj,
yes?

Hey, another.

- Ah!
No sweeps on twos!

- That's
a loose rule.

- Well,
we're playing by...

[background conversations]

We're not playing;
we are done.

[coins jingling]

- Hey,
you can't do that!

I'm going to win
my money back.

- Yeah? When?

HOHJ:
Now.

- I see, Hohj was just
slow-playing us, everyone.

He's actually
a lion.

[laughter]

You want to win
your money back?

- Seriously?

- Mm-hmm.

It will be
behind the bar.

Another.

[laughter]

- A woman should know
her place.

- I suppose
you're gonna show me?

- What do we do
when we are scared?

- We say
the words...

- We say
the words...

[chair scrapes floor]

- ...

...

...

...

servings.

And there's
of us?

- Fourteen, if Philip doesn't
make it back today.

- That's true.

And if Matthew and Simon
don't find Mary.

- It's only a day's walk
to Jerusalem.

- If Philip, Matthew, Simon,
and Mary don't come back,

we could split
the remaining servings,

but someone would
still be left out.

And what if the others
do come back?

We'll have nothing
for them!

- Maybe Philip
stayed an extra day

to visit
his brother Micah.

- Why are you so troubled
about Philip?

This...

this is literally
our last meal.

These lentils.

We don't have even half a beitza
of flour or yeast.

- Ramah and Mary
might find berries.

- He can make people walk,
He can heal lepers,

why can't He make food
appear out of thin air?

- When I was with John,

sometimes we would go
for days without food.

Other times,

a person he baptized
would give us money

and we would eat
like kings...

for a day.

- He doesn't sound
like much of a planner.

- We never thought
about it.

John doesn't
believe in money.

- Doesn't believe
in it?

Are you seeing this?

- He says it's
a man-made construct

designed to assign value
and take ownership of things

that belong to God.

- Sounds like the guy
needs an accountant.

Maybe we should
send Matthew to him.

- Right now isn't
the best time for jokes.

- Okay.

[chopping]

- I once thought about
joining the Zealots.

- What?
You never told me that.

- You never asked.

- So,
why didn't you?

- This very thing.

We have enough rules from Torah
to follow as it is.

- .

- .

All these prayers
we have to recite,

all these things
we can and cannot do.

Add a bunch of body exercises
to that each morning?

Pfft.

- They have to be
in prime shape, you know?

- To k*ll people.

- Yes.

- But, rolling out of bed each
morning to Eema's breakfast,

going out on the boat
with Abba

seemed pretty great
when I thought about it.

- But now that
he's with us,

he's technically
not a Zealot anymore, right?

- I have this theory.

That,
for some people,

like Little James and Thaddeus
over there--

- Uh-huh.

- --they're called
to follow our Rabbi,

and, they just somehow know
it is a better path

than the one
that they are on.

- And then
there's him.

- Mm-hmm.

Decades of training
for one thing?

It cannot just go away
overnight.

- I'm more worried
about Simon than him.

- [chuckles] And we've
had our moments, too.

- Ah, yes,
"Sons of Thunder."

Aye! What is Eema
going to think?

[laughing]

- I don't know, maybe she'll
be glad we got a title!

[laughing]

- I wonder
how Mary's doing?

- I just don't
understand

why Jesus would pair up
Simon and Matthew

to go and find her.

Matthew.

It's like asking a fox
and a fish to go and team up

and do something
productive.

- What?

- Because they could
never work together.

It's a saying.

- Nobody says that.

Anyway...

[sighs]

I actually don't understand
most of this;

just pieces
here and there,

when good things happen,

but the rest?

I'm just following.

- I have
a sinking feeling...

it's going to take a long time
to understand.

- For us?

- For everyone.

- Unh.

- I know places
like this.

- "If I make my bed
deep in the depths,

You are here."

- Just stay
behind me.

[background conversations]

HOHJ: It's time to play
for real this time.

[background chatter]

HOHJ: Who's a lion,
who's a mouse?

]] I'm a lion.

HOHJ: All right,
I hope so.

HOHJ: Round four,
Shoob.

Round four,
Shoob.

Place your bets.

[all yelling]

ROMAN:
Keep it civil over there.

Hebrew dogs.

[background conversations]

- [Loudly]
Excuse me?!

[silence]

Have you seen a woman
with long, dark hair?

She may be
distraught.

- Are you friends
of Lilith?

- No.

- It sounds
like Lilith.

That witch took me
for everything I have

at knucklebones.

- It's Mary.

Do you know
where she is now?

- She can't have
gone too far.

We'll cover more ground
if we split--

- We're not doing that.

- We can meet
at the stables!

- Didn't you learn anything
in there?

Mary can obviously
take care of herself.

You can't.

- What if you were
cut off from Jesus

by something
in your past?

Wouldn't you want help
getting back to Him

as soon as possible?

- Okay.

We split up.

North.

East.

South.

West.

Huh?

I go North--

MARY MAGDALENE:
Boys?

- Mary!

- I thought
I was dreaming you.

- Can you walk?

- I'm not going
anywhere.

- We have to
go back.

- No,
I can't.

- C'mon, Mary.

He told us
to come for you.

- No... no.

He already fixed me once...
and I broke again.

I can't face Him.

- I'm a bad person,
Mary.

- Matthew--

- No!

My whole life,
all for me.

No faith.

- I do have faith
in Him...

just not in me.

- I'm learning more about Torah
and God because of you.

I'm studying harder because
you are such a great student.

- Remember when we were
at Zebedee's?

And they lowered that man
after breaking Zeb's roof?

[chuckles]

We did that
together.

And they got
to meet Jesus

because of your care
for them

and your good ideas.

- Ramah is beginning to read
and write because of you.

He saved you
to do all these things.

[crying]

[gags]

[retching]

It's all right,
it's all right.

- Where's
your handkerch--

- Will you get some water,
please?

[continues retching]

- Yeah, right.

- It's okay.

I'll find some water.

DUNASH: So,
all you're telling me is

that he told someone
to carry his mat on Shabbat?

SHMUEL: And invoked
the title "Son of Man,"

from the prophet Daniel.

- Yeah,
many have.

And maybe something
happened at Capernaum

but you're not certain
it was the same person.

- I am certain.

DUNASH: Right,
and your second witness--

SHMUEL:
My colleague, Yussef.

DUNASH: --who was not at
the Pool and neither were you.

- I was there.

- I'm sorry,
but this case is very thin.

President Shimon
does not preoccupy himself

with minutiae.

- Minutiae?!!

YANNI:
If I may be so bold,

which violations
of God's immutable Law

does President Shimon
deem worthy of his attention?

- You're not listening,
Yanni,

just like you haven't
in the past.

That is why you still hold
a low station.

SHMUEL: I would
like to know as well.

if Shabbat violations are not
worthy of Shimon's time,

what is?

- Of commandments,

there are some, which,
when pitted against one another

under certain circumstances,

create pain for our people
who are already suffering.

- But "The Law of Adonai
is perfect, reviving the soul--"

- Let us return
to the matter of witnesses.

In the Torah,

the testimony of how many
witnesses is required

to judiciously
establish a fact?

Hmm?

- Two.

DUNASH:
And if a husband dies,

and his wife was the only one
to witness his death?

What does it make her?

- A widow?

- An agunah,
an abandoned woman

because there was not
a second witness to his death.

- And if she
remarries?

- It makes her
an adulterer,

and her children
illegitimate.

- Well, can you not see
the cruelty of that?

These are the laws
that Shimon,

like his father
Hillel,

is seeking to reform.

His care is for women,
for widows,

for the undervalued,
for the vulnerable.

Yours seems to be about people
carrying mats on Shabbat.

- Blasphemy
is not harmless.

Dunash, think of
the political value.

- I'm only telling you that
Shimon is extremely focused.

He will not expend energy
on this case.

Shalom.

[sighs]

YANNI:
Thin?

Blatantly commanding someone
to violate Shabbat,

in addition to blasphemy?

President Shimon would
call that a "thin" case?

- Dunash was
totally dismissive.

- He is arrogant because
he believes he's the final word.

He thinks there's no consequence
in talking down to us.

- It's hopeless.

- No, it's just
getting started.


Now we go
to the other side.

The rigid one.

- Shammai?

- I was hoping to
create more chaos

by working
through Shimon,

but perhaps Shammai will respond
to our stories with such fury

this will work better
anyway.

- Once, during
the Feast of Tabernacles,

Shammai's daughter
gave birth to a son.

Shmuel, he climbed up
onto the roof of the chamber

where she
and the boy lay

and tore open a hole
in the plaster,

just to make it
a sukkah.

- Yes, and his philosophies
have weight in the Sanhedrin,

which helps.

But what if he finds out we
sought President Shimon first?

- Not what if--
we spell it out for him.

Shammai and Shimon
are philosophical rivals.

Here we have
a matter of law

that President Shimon
doesn't have time for.

It's a perfect issue
for Shammai.

Shimon will have
no explanation

as to why he didn't
take this seriously.

- Why does it take
all this?

[shuddered breaths]

- Thank heaven,
you're alive!

- What happened?

- Philip returned
with news.

John the Baptizer
was taken into custody.

- In Herod's most heavily
blockaded prison,

high security.

- I guess
it was pretty bad.

They were rough;
they hurt him.

- Huh...
does Jesus know?

Mm-hmm.

- Has Andrew heard?

[indistinct conversation]

- Do you need
anything?

- No, where is He?

- In His tent.

- Should I wait?

- No,
I will take you to Him.

[Mary sighs]

- It's not you.

There's quite a lot
going on right now.

[sniffles]

[sighs]

So, it's good
to have you back.

- I don't know
what to say.

- I don't
require much.

- I'm-- [sniffles]
I'm just so ashamed.

You redeemed me,
and I just threw it all away.

- Well, that's not
much of a redemption

if it can be lost
in a day, is it?

[chuckles]

- I owe you
everything...

but I just don't think
I can do it.

- Do what?

- Live up to it.

Repay you.

How could I leave,
how could I go back...

to the place I was.

And I didn't even--

I didn't even come back
on my own.

They had to come
get me.

[sighs]

I just can't
live up to it.

- Well, that's true.

But you don't have to.

I just want
your heart.

The Father just
wants your heart.

Give Us that,
which you already have,

and the rest
will come in time.

Did you really think you'd
never struggle or sin again?

I know how painful that
moment was for you.

- I shouldn't.

- Someday,
but not here.

- I'm just so sorry.

[sobbing]

- Look up.

[sobbing]

- I can't.

- You can.

- I can't.

- Look at me.

[sniffles]

I forgive you.

[sobbing]

It's over.

[sniffling]

[sobbing]

SIMON: You're certain
Herod said forever?

- I think that's what
life imprisonment means.

Signed the declaration
on the spot... in blood.

- We'll never
see him again.

- We can
break him out.

I know some people.

- The Zealots
against Herod's army?

That's a fight
I'd pay to see.

It's maximum security
up there.

- That would make it
more fun.

- No... no.

You're not a part
of that Order anymore.

You're a part
of this one.

- We shouldn't limit
our options is my point.

- Now isn't the time
for that.

- I'm afraid the situation
is worse than you know.

- What could be
worse?

- This never used to happen
to me before I met you guys.

- I'm sorry to interrupt,
Rabbi.

It seems
that there's, uh--

- Yes, let him in,
Matthew.

- Rabbi?

- Thomas.

- I recognize
there is a lot happening,

and right now
may not be a good time.

- What is it?

- We only have lentils
left to eat

for tonight's
Shabbat dinner,

and after that,
we are completely out of food.

- Nothing left?

I'm so sorry,
Rabbi.

[sighs]

- Seems like something
we should seek my Father about.

- Pray?

- Well, it is almost Shabbat,
after all.

I know of
a synagogue nearby.

- The nearest settlement
is Wadi Kelt,

and I don't think
they give out free meals.

- Tell everyone we head out
in the morning.

- Shabbat shalom,
Rabbi.

- Shabbat shalom,
Lamech.

SIMON: Have you been
to this synagogue, Rabbi?

JESUS: No,
I have not, Simon.

JOHN:
Why this synagogue, Rabbi?

It's not on
any of our maps.

- That's a good question.

Have you noticed that,

no matter
where we go recently,

we are more and more
misunderstood?

JAMES & JOHN:
[scoff] Definitely.

- It's a very
complicated time.

It grieves me that Mary was
not welcomed in the synagogue

in Jericho when she first
arrived in distress.

- What,
they turned her away?

She didn't
mention it.

- Come on,
she's a woman.

She didn't expect their help,
but she needed it.

Add to that
John's arrest.

You could say I'm feeling
nostalgic for a small town.

LAMECH: No one
born of a forbidden union

may enter
the assembly of the Lord.

Even to
the tenth generation,

none of
his descendants

may enter
the assembly of the Lord.

No Ammonites
or Moabites

may enter the assembly
of the Lord.

Even to
the tenth generation,

none of them
may enter...

the assembly
of the Lord forever!

Because they did not meet you
with bread and with water

on the way.

- Shalom.

LAMECH:
Even to the tenth generation.

None of them may enter the
assembly of the Lord forever.

- May I see?

LAMECH: Because
they did not meet you

with bread
and with wat--

Excuse me!

What are you doing?

- What is your name?

- Elam.

- Your friend Elam
has a withered hand.

- Are you a healer?

- It is not lawful
to heal on Sabbath!

[sighs]

- Which one of you
who has a sheep,

and it falls into a pit
on Sabbath,

will not take hold of it
and lift it out?

- Who are you to speak to
our congregation in such a way?

- Of how much more value
is this man than a sheep?!

- Stop this at once!

- Come here,
come stand here.

It's okay.

MADAI:
Elam, sit down,

we don't know
this person,

he could be a shaman.

- Is it lawful on Sabbath
to do good or to do harm,

to save life
or to k*ll?

- This affliction
does not threaten his life!

- It does not even
affect his health!

- Lift it up.

[breathing deeply]

- Stretch it out.

- It's good,
huh?

- If he was supposed
to be healed

God would have
done it Himself!!

- Interesting point.

- Get out!

- Gladly.

- Blasphemer!!

- What is wrong
with you?!

- Apparently,
everything.

- Wait!
Come back!

How dare you!

- Are they going to send
the town guards after us?

- I think those guys
are the town guards.

SIMON: All right, so,
for those of you who didn't see,

first He interrupted
the reading

simply by standing next to
this guy with a paralyzed hand--

[laughing]

--and then the priest,
he just went--

- What?

- Reaping or harvesting
on Shabbat.

- Oh, yes.

[spits them out]

- I'm sorry,
I've been so hungry

I forgot
what day it is.

- You may.

[rustling leaves]

- MADAI:
Go! Get!

Out of the way!

You have made a mockery of our
little synagogue and of Torah.

LAMECH: You will tell us
your name, your lineage, your--

First you,
and now your disciples,

are doing what is not lawful
to do on the Sabbath!

- Have you not read
what David did

when he was in need
and was hungry?

He entered
the house of God,

in the time of
Ahimalech the priest,

and ate the bread
of the Presence,

which was not lawful
for him to eat,

but only
for the priests?

- You would compare
yourself to David?

- It was
an emergency!

- Or have you not
read in the Law

how on Shabbat
the priests in the temple

profane the Sabbath
but are guiltless?

- That's for Levites.

Are you a Levite?

Of priestly lineage?

- Listen carefully...

something greater
than the temple is here.

And if you had known
what this means,

"I desire mercy,
not sacrifice,"

you would not have
condemned the guiltless.

Sabbath was made for man,
not man for the Sabbath.

So... the Son of Man is Lord
even of the Sabbath.

- The Son of M-m--!!!

- Let's go.

MATTHEW: That title,
"Son of Man,"

it seems to upset
a lot of people.

Why?

- I'll tell you later.

MADAI: They probably
won't even read it.

This is Wadi Kelt,
not Bethany, or Jericho.

They routinely forget
to send us memoranda

of liturgical changes
for synagogue practice.

- And if we don't
alert the Sanhedrin?

- Then we sin
by omission.

- He even had women
following him!

Three!

- Be sure to add that.

- If that doesn't
catch their attention--

- But the Sanhedrin
is distracted.

Between Rome, and the fractions,
and the Zealots,

and the protests,
and Herod and Caesar...

Their attention
is diluted.

- Who would
have dreamed?

Someone claiming
to be the Son of Man--

- The one who approaches
the Ancient of Days.

- --and Lord of the Sabbath,

walking into
our tiny synagogue.

- Wadi Kelt.

Jerusalem.

David.

Goliath.

Maybe there is hope
for the little,

the overlooked.

- Or maybe
they write it off

as just another lunatic
in the wilderness

spewing blasphemies
and trying to get attention.

- And it will end up
at the bottom of the pile

on some
secretary's desk.

We could go
to Jotapata.

There will be some people
of import among the protests,

we could tell them
as well.

- Yes...
we will do both.

Who knows?

All we can do is fulfill
our duty to report the facts.

And pray.

- For what?

- Justice.

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

♪ ♪

♪ ♪


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
