04x02 - Confessions

[breathing shakily]

[gasp♪]

[Andrew] Rabbi?

- I'll just... I'll set this right here.
- It's all right. Please, come in.

Sit with me.

Please.

How are you holding up?

I don't exactly know
what to say. Um...

I thought I would be far worse.

Apparently, Simon thinks so too. He
keeps checking on me every five minutes.

[chuckle♪]

Like how you keep
checking on me?

- You knew John longer than any of us.
- Mm-hm.

But, then you're...

I'm what?

I mean, you're...

Then why do you
need to check on me?

Okay.

Well, then I'll just...

I'll say you're a mystery.

Mm.

Oh, wow.

I know.

- [cough♪]
- Pretty stale.

Pretty?

[cough♪] Oh.

Tastes like Elisah's bones.

Can we be laughing?

Why not?

You know, some of the moments
in which we laugh the hardest

come around the
time of a funeral.

Our hearts are so tender, all our
emotions right at the surface.

Laughter and tears,
closer than ever.

And believe me, I sat many a
shiva with John when we were kids

and he could not hold a sullen
mood for seven straight days.

Never happened.

I feel guilty.

- I should be in shambles.
- No.

No, Andrew. There is
no "should" in grief.

There's no right way to mourn.

You've already experienced much
grief when John was arrested.

Falling to pieces again
would not honor John's memory

any more than feeling
nothing at all.

Mm?

So...

you say I am a mystery.

Well... no. I mean that...
That you're... You...

Who did John say I am?

John said...

"The One."

- What are you doing?
- You've given me an idea.

- Where do we traditionally sit shiva?
- The home of the deceased?

And where was John's home?

The open road.

Gather the others.

[theme music playing]

♪ Oh, child, come on
in Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with
the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

"The words of Qoheleth,
son of David."

Vanity of vanities, says
the Preacher, all is vanity.

I have seen everything that is
done under the sun, and behold,

all is vanity

and a striving after wind.

A time to seek,

and a time to lose.

A time to keep,

and a time to cast away.

A time to tear,

and a time to sew.

A time to be silent,

and a time to speak.

He who loves money will not
be satisfied with money,

"nor he who loves
wealth with his income."

At first it was only during drought
season, but now it's all the time.

Is there any anxiety that you can point to
that may be causing these sleepless nights?

It's not a thought, but the
general feeling of dread.

As if there were a snake under the bed or
a lion crouching just outside the door.

Nathan,

the anguish of our forefathers
lives on in our bodies.

- What do you mean?
- Egypt.

The 40-year wandering.

The exile in Babylon.

All of that pain and fear

is passed on in our blood,
our bones, and our stories.

I just want to be able to sleep.

I cannot change my blood. I
cannot change my Jewishness.

No, you can't.

But you can pray.

You can visit me every day
and we'll pray together.

He who dwells in the
shelter of the Most High

will abide in the
shadow of the Almighty.

Thank you for coming.

Thank you, Rabbi.

I only wish I were
a miracle worker.

There is one I've heard about.

- Give my best to Ila.
- I will.

- Shalom. Shalom.
- Shalom. Shalom.

Shalom.

I've been meaning to ask
you, how is life at home?

You know, since all the...

She was only sleeping, Yussif.

You know, that's all we can say.

Can you imagine what your life would be like
if you were assigned to a different post?

I don't want to.

News from Jerusalem.

Rabbi Shmuel has been
promoted to the Sanhedrin.

Rabbi Shammai is set to
address the assembly today.

Then Nicodemus
should be present.

Apparently he's missed
multiple sessions recently

and we never sent your letter.

Yussif, do you suppose word of the sermon on
the Korazim Plateau has reached Jerusalem?

I can't imagine how
it could not have.

But the sermon may fade
in comparison to...

rumors of events
in the Decapolis.

It's more than rumors. Read on.

You're sure that's my good side?

You said it was...

Am I wrong?

It's a bust. Your likeness
will be seen from every angle.

I'm not paying you
for art lessons.

Quintus. I don't...

Say it now and get
it out of the way.

Way too easy. And
not today. Leave us.

Ah, wait, wait, wait.
I'm in the middle of...

this.

And normally I would tell this man here
that he is immortalizing the wrong end.

There it is.

Not today. I need your latest
intelligence on Jesus of Nazareth.

Military intelligence.

Those two words paired together
always struck me as oxymoronic.

- Atticus.
- Quintus, tell me about Jesus.

All right. Just...

Just...

Uh...

No change. Jesus and I talked. You
were there. We have an understanding.

- No new information?
- No.

The Jews have new information.

Of course, the Jews
know about a Jew.

I don't think you understand
the role of a magistrate.

- It is all happening right under your nose.
- Debrief me, detective.

- What's so important?
- It feels like...

the beginning of something.

w*r, maybe.

I am not going to do your job

and make life difficult for
the people who follow Jesus.

I will not break up their gatherings
or expel the pilgrims, tu comprendi?

Something spooked you.

I know my Jews
better than you do.

What's going on with you?

Right now, the only thing keeping you in
Caesar's good graces are your revenues.

They're up.
Spettacolare, dominus.

But you really need...

to do something!

Don't become infamous for overseeing
the town where a revolution started.

Hail, Caesar.

Hail.

Do you think he could be
taking us to the valley?

We're heading north
up the Jordan.

Ah, to the Waters of Merom.

Merom?

Where Joshua claimed his
victory over the Canaanites.

Maybe it's where big things are
really going to start happening.

Many big things have
already happened.

I bet we're going
to Mount Hermon.

I haven't seen snow in ages.

Isaiah. "Though your sins are like
scarlet, they shall be as white as snow."

- That one, too.
- That's another one.

What would Mount Hermon
have to do with John?

We are still within the
seven days of shiva.

Yeah, well, shiva is just as much
about the living as it is the deceased.

Doesn't exactly explain why
we're going in this direction.

Well, why don't we just
wait until we get there?

It'll be useful information for those of
us carrying heavy things, Little James.

Just keep up, John.

You're sure you
heard him correctly?

We can talk along
the way, he said.

But this time is about
the Baptizer, not us.

I'm just telling you what
he said. He actually smiled.

All right.

Let's go, then. There's
no time like the present.

Go for it. It'll probably work.

What? I'm just...

Rabbi.

Ah, there you are. I
was waiting for you.

How was your visit with Kafni?

Uh...

Mm.

I suppose if it went well, we
would all know by now, huh?

But there is another way.

The quiddushin.

- You're familiar. Of course.
- I am.

Rabbi, I left my
father to follow you.

I endured many, many harsh words
from him for choosing to do so.

You know, I got the
taste of that myself.

You're the closest thing
I have to a father now.

John has agreed to stand as
the male witness for Thomas.

As my spiritual father...

will you give me away?

We don't mean to burden you.

Kafni's refusal to sanctify our
union isn't what you came to do.

No.

No, Thomas.

You're wrong.

Everybody gather around.

People seem to think
they know why I'm here.

Do you think I've come
to give peace on Earth?

I have not come
to bring peace...

but a sword.

I mean division, Zee,

within households and beyond.

When someone chooses
to follow me,

it may mean that in one house,

five will be divided,

three against two and
two against three.

Why?

We see it with Ramah
and her father.

It is not my intention
to divide families,

but the cost of following me

can mean that people will be
hated by those closest to them

because of their unbelief.

But isn't honoring father and
mother one of the Commandments?

Honoring your parents

is one of the highest social
and spiritual obligations,

but it is not higher
than following God.

Whoever loves father and mother
more than me is not worthy of me.

We choose you over family.

It is decided then?

You will sign the letter
and stand as my witness?

Let's talk about the
details after this trip,

and the completion of
shiva for my cousin.

Of course. Of course.

So, Thomas...

what are you preparing
to give Ramah as mohar?

Oh. Well, we already agreed.

She made it clear she
doesn't need any...

Um, Thomas. Thomas.

I'm going to borrow
Thomas for one second, eh?

That's a bad idea.

What's a bad idea?

Not giving your wife a gift.

Specifically, taking her at her word
when she said she doesn't want a gift.

No, no, no.

Take it from your
married friend, hmm?

These words do not mean
what you think they mean.

Let me explain to you something.
Rabbi. Do you still need him?

No. Please, set him straight.

The rest of us will keep going.

What are you talking about?

- Why are you laughing?
- Are you kidding?

Blessed are you, Lord our
God, king of the universe,

who has given us
life, sustained us,

and allowed us to
arrive in this moment.

All the way from the harbor
villages of the Upper Galilee.

Capernaum.

- One generation shall commend...
- Can you believe that, Moishe?

your works to
another, and shall...

Moishe, I'm telling you.

The day this kid arrived
in the Holy City,

he still smelled faintly
of fish and naivete.

I will...

meditate.

Mm. Bergamot.

[Yanni sniffing]

Jasmine and...

balsam from the shores
of the Dead Sea.

Take my word, Moishe.

You are holding the robes of a rabbi
whose name will be remembered in history.

You'll tell your
sons about this day.

Is that all this is about for
you, Yanni? Being remembered?

Special robes and
expensive perfume?

If they are befitting.

Anyone could have
alerted the elders.

Step out, please, Moishe.

[door close♪]

I prayed with this man, Yanni.

You what?

In the Decapolis, while you and the
others were busy with witnesses,

I stumbled upon him myself.
It was quite accidental.

But you never told us.

He wasn't what I expected or
whom I remembered from Capernaum.

He seemed sincere and
gave me much to consider.

Sincerity can be cunning.

I didn't detect the
evil I expected.

Only God can discern the heart
of man. It is not for you to say.

- Then why am I being given this post?
- No one is giving you anything.

- You've earned your seat.
- How?

I studied, I wrote reports, I met
with the leaders of feuding tradition,

and what is there
to show for it?

How is our faith, our
nation, improved in any way?

You're overwhelmed.

It's normal to be
nervous. Lots of feelings.

Yes, I am overwhelmed by how
empty this entire exercise is,

by the posturing
and congratulating.

- About what?
- Shmuel, I promise,

when you hear Shammai's address,
everything will make sense.

I haven't asked you
yet. Are you good?

I'm good.

I'm at peace.

John would have
wanted that, hmm?

You haven't asked me how I am.

I'm sorry. How are you?

No, I'm just kidding.

Just as I feared.

Caesarea Philippi.

Hey.

This may have been
where you lived,

but you're definitely not the same
man I found passed out at midday

in the middle of
a cheap flat. Mm?

Thanks for the memory.

Just trying to help.

The Canaanite god Baal, he
used to be worshiped here.

Actually, many places,
but especially here.

- Why?
- The water.

They regarded Baal
as the god of rain.

A spring pours out of a cave in
the side of the rock face there.

The fountainhead of the Jordan.

To sound out the depths of the spring,
they let a rock down on a rope.

It never reached the bottom.

Welcome to the gates of hell.

[indistinct chatter]

You see, doesn't the thought of our
tasty kosher food sound better here?

He has a point.

Are those goats for
sacrifice in their temple?

No. Something much worse.

[indistinct chatter]

[crowd applauding]

We traveled north to
Capernaum for the fresh fish,

not to discover great minds.

[crowd laughing]

And yet, as unlikely
as it may seem,

from this backwater village
in the Upper Galilee,

has arisen an intellect
so enterprising,

probing, and formidable,

we cannot help but rejoice
at our good fortune

in finding Shmuel bar Yosef

and welcoming him to
this highest council,

where he succeeds Rabban
Seled in the 70th chair.

[crowd applauding]

Unless you've been living in a
tomb for the past six months,

Jesus of Nazareth, once the subject
of speculation, curious observation,

gossip and hearsay,

has, through Shmuel's diligent reporting
and confirmed eyewitness accounts,

emerged a portrait of the most damning
and dangerous figure in this nation

since Ahab and Jezebel.

[crowd murmuring]

Jesus has not only shown contempt
for the Holy Law and tradition,

he has amassed a devoted
following doing so.

He travels and mingles closely

with tax collectors, sinners, degenerates
and a member of the Fourth Philosophy.

The zealots?

He counts among his
disciples multiple women,

one of whom is a
Gentile from Ethiopia.

Not one, but two
of his followers

are former disciples of the late
blasphemer, John the Baptizer.

- "Late"?
- We have Shmuel to thank, in part,

for handing over the whereabouts of
the Baptizer to Roman authorities.

Why were we not consulted

before cooperating with and handing
over one of our own to Rome?

Sympathetic to the
Baptizer, are you, Shimon?

Who called us a brood of vipers?
Murderers of our own mothers?

[Caiapha♪] Shammai.

You've gone on too long.

[grunt♪]

The time for patiently
observing is long past.

The acts and whereabouts
of Jesus of Nazareth

shall be reported to
this council immediately.

Senior leaders in every district

should question
and expose Jesus.

Listen carefully to
what he says and seek

to entangle him in
his own teaching.

If we corner him into exposing
himself by his own teaching

in a way that people will
easily recognize as heresy,

they will turn from him.

We can dilute his influence.

As to what happens if he is
trapped and brought in to us...

Even if we find him blasphemous,

I encourage you
to resist the urge

to enact the justice
of the Law of Moses.

Stoning...

Well, it's not only
a messy business,

but stoning a
preacher of the people

risks chaos we cannot afford.

We must convince Rome

that he's worthy of their
attention and their concern.

As much as the occupation

has been a source of
endless pain to our people,

we must be sober in admitting

that our colonizers are better
at tracking and k*lling people

than we have the resources
or the energy to be.

We must keep our houses
of power separate.

We cannot afford
to be perceived as

"hoping for
disorder" in any way.

Pilate, as young and in
over his head as he is,

will never allow that,

and we can't give
him another reason

for doing something rash.

Let Rome enforce its
own man-made laws,

and if it works in
our favor, fine.

We will concentrate our
efforts on preserving God's law

and the sacred
traditions of our faith.

Am I clear?

Write up the decree and have it
presented to me by nightfall.

This meeting is adjourned.

Caiaphas, this report is bloated
and skewed with a biased agenda.

I said we're finished
here, Shimon.

Come. Come.

Rabbi, this place...

Respectfully, Rabbi, why
did you bring us here?

It's an abomination.

- That's a pretty strong word, Andrew.
- Rabbi...

during shiva?

Should we avoid dark
places out of fear,

or should we be light to them,

like Simon and Judas
were on their mission?

Do you think my cousin would
be afraid of this cave?

Do you think he would be so appalled by
what happens in that temple over there

that he couldn't stand
to be in this place?

Who do people say
the Son of Man is?

Uh, some say you are Elijah,
the one who preaches repentance.

Others say Jeremiah, because he was
rejected by the leaders of his time.

And still others say one of the prophets,
those that spoke on God's behalf.

Okay, what are we gonna
have to do? Cast lots?

Nathanael, this is your
moment. Be yourself.

Some say John the Baptizer.

Which obviously isn't true.

Okay, well, that's
everyone else.

But who do you say that I am?

You?

You are the Christ.

The son of the living God.

These carved statues of Baal and
Pan and other idols that we passed?

They're dead and decaying,
but we worship a living God.

And you...

You are His son.

Blessed are you,
Simon, son of Jonah,

for flesh and blood has
not revealed this to you,

but my Father in heaven.

All your life, you've been
called Simon, one who hears.

But today, I call you Peter.

Rock.

And it is on this rock

that I will build my church,

and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it.

This is a place of death,

and I brought you here to tell
you that death has no power

to hold my redeemed
people c*ptive.

Because I live,
you also will live.

I will give you the keys
to the kingdom of heaven,

and whatever you bind on
earth will be bound in heaven,

and whatever you loose on
earth will be loosed in heaven.

You have the authority

to declare the truth to others
that I am declaring to you,

that the repentant have a
place in the kingdom of heaven.

You have confessed
that I am the Christ

and you will influence many others
to make the same confession in time.

But I will explain more later.

For now, you must
all keep this quiet.

I strictly charge you
not to tell anyone.

Rabbi, some already know
that you are the Messiah.

Why keep this silent now?

In some places, for some people,

it was important that
they know and believe.

But right now,

if all our people of this region
hear the Messiah has come,

they will rise up in multitudes

preparing to join a military
figure in w*r against Rome.

I want people to follow me
based on my true identity,

like Peter here,

not based on some misguided
understanding of the title I hold.

Teacher, our people are ready to
believe in you and fight with you.

Why else bring us to
this place of death

if not to defeat it?

That will come in time.

I brought you here to honor John

by showing you what
he was here to do.

He was preparing
the way for this.

For me to build my church.

A church that will never be
stopped, even in a place like this.

John was fearless of evil
and obedient everywhere,

and so must you be,

even at the gates of hell.

Are you ready to follow
in his footsteps,

and mine?

Even if that leads you
to a place like this?

That is all.

We should be going.

I'll get that for
you, Little James.

Thank you.

Peter, the rock.

You see that?

Four horsemen waiting to send out
the message to the whole of Israel,

all because of you.

Your work created this.

He is dead.

He will be once he makes a false
move and runs afoul of Rome.

No. I mean the Baptizer.

Shammai said it.

I'm the one who first gave
him over to the authorities.

Because you are prescient.

You have eyes to see
consequences far in the future

that others are too
distracted to consider.

And now the entire Sanhedrin
will know of your talent.

Are you listening?

I'm... I am.

I really think you should be the one to
bring him before the Sanhedrin yourself.

Me?

You're from Capernaum.

You know people who follow him.
You've spoken with him twice.

You should try to find him.

You're right.

Shalom! Are you alive?

Yes. I'm just thinking.

Yes, I'm going to
try to find him.

[indistinct chatter]

Now that it's pinned, you
can pull it from your end.

Just pull it tight.

[Juda♪] I mean, I'm
getting used to it.

Anyone could have said it.

- So, why didn't you?
- Why didn't you?

I thought it was the sort of thing
where Jesus asks us a question

as part of the teaching.

Simon just spoke up first.

I'm not even sure we
call him Simon anymore.

Do we? Jesus gave us a new name.

- We still go by James and John.
- I said, I don't know.

- What are we going to tell Eema?
- We won't tell her anything.

She cannot know.

Why do you have
to bring up Eema?

- That should be enough for the night, no?
- [Nathanael] Yes.

And considering Philip is out
getting even more, it's plenty.

All right.

Apple?

Uh-huh. Sure.

Thank you.

There is plenty,
you can have as...

If he wanted more than
one, he would have asked.

You can say that
again. I'll take three.

She would have found out anyway. She
always finds out about everything.

I don't get it.

Is Simon... sorry, Peter
really the best disciple?

Did Jesus say "best"?

I have it written down. The
word "best" was not used.

Does it matter?

I haven't been here as long as some of you,
but it does seem like Peter is the best.

- One of the top three or four.
- Who are the other three?

By what measurements are we
determining this ranking?

Who said anything about ranking?
What is this, the military?

- The opposite, I believe he indicated.
- I don't know. It is clear he is to be a leader.

Does that have to mean the
rest of us are less important?

No one asked my opinion, but I
think we all just need some sleep.

- I'm not going to get any sleep tonight.
- Great! You can take the third watch.

I myself was scheduled to
take the third watch tonight.

- But if you can't sleep...
- That's not what I meant.

- But if you can't sleep, then take the third watch.
- [John] It's a figure of speech.

- [Andrew] Why don't you take the third watch!
- [John] Can't take me seriously every time.

- [Andrew] I'll be asleep. Obviously, I'm tired.
- [John] I still need to go to sleep.

- [Andrew] You can take third watch...
- [John] James can take it.

Matthew, how's everyone
settling in for the night?

I don't know if "settled"
is the right word.

You know, I love that about you.
Always looking for the right word.

[chuckle♪]

What about you?

Are you unsettled?

- If now's not a good time, I can...
- No, no, no. Please, sit down. Please.

I'm listening.

[arguing continue♪]

Rabbi, today you seemed
to elevate Simon.

I mean, Peter.

I guess I'm not sure I fully understand
his new position and what it means.

Yes. Well, I'm not sure he
fully understands what it means.

He was quiet the rest of the day, which for
me, I must admit, was quite a welcome change.

Ah. [chuckle♪]

I'm not sure you heard most of it, but that
long day in Syria, Simon... I mean, Peter...

screamed at me across the fire,

said that I spit on
the Jewish faith,

that he would never forget what I did to
him and that he could not ever forgive me.

Hmm.

Have you asked for forgiveness?

Why would I when he said he
wouldn't forgive? It's pointless.

Matthew...

you don't apologize
to be forgiven.

You apologize to repent.

Forgiveness is a gift given
from the other person.

I guess I'm finding
it hard to accept

that the person you would formally
assign leadership to of a group,

with the keys to the kingdom of heaven,
would be someone so temperamental.

I know the term is a metaphor,
but he does not act like a rock.

I make people what they aren't.

You know that better than most.

You can obviously choose
whomever you want,

and your ways are often very different
from other people's ways, but...

Rabbi, I must confess,

it hurts.

You have no idea how
cruel he has been to me.

Maybe you do know and you
chose to elevate him anyway,

which makes it
even more painful.

- I...
- You're right.

There have been times where Peter
has been overly harsh with you.

And that has not pleased my Father
in heaven, nor has it pleased me.

Then why?

I will say this is not
always the consideration,

but I would simply ask,

who harmed the other first?

Uh, I guess, in the abstract, by
accepting the job from Rome, I...

No.

No.

Not in the abstract.

In fact.

Okay, by turning my back on our people, and
then by spying on him for Quintus, and...

even coming within hours
of turning him over to Rome

and possibly ruining
his family's life...

And you've never
apologized for this?

No, I just...

I want to forget
about that time.

The same way Mary wants
to forget about her time.

And I want to keep the peace.

Apologizing to him would
only cause an argument.

The group already has enough of
those. They're having one right now.

I know I haven't contributed much, but
I think by the end of this, everyone...

There is no peace when
two of my followers

hold resentment in their
heart towards one another.

You know what you must do.

It's been a long day.

I'm going to sleep now.

Good night, Matthew.

Good night, Rabbi.

Thank you for listening.

[Big Jame♪] Who's
going to tend the fire?

You have to tell him that it
was just a figure of speech.

I just want to go to bed.

- Mary, Tamar, Ramah, your tent is ready.
- Oh, thank God.

I don't think so.

- Andrew, our tent is ready too.
- All right.

I heard raised voices over here.
Are you arguing about something?

Uh...

- About who's going to take the third watch.
- Isn't it Andrew's turn?

Oh, John is going
to take that for me.

Very kind of you, John.

Thaddeus, where is your lean-to?

- [Thaddeu♪] Oh, it's my night to keep the fire.
- Right.

- But where's Matthew going to sleep?
- [Little Jame♪] I have space.

- Because of Thaddeus.
- Thank you, Little James.

Zee, you'll sleep just
outside the women's tent?

As always.

- Matthew, you talked to Jesus? He's good?
- Yes, yes. Yeah, he went to sleep.

All right, then.

Good night.

Lie us down, Adonai,
our God, in peace.

[both] And raise us up
again, our ruler, in life.

[all] Spread over us
your Sukkah of peace.

Direct us with
your good counsel,

and save us for your
own name's sake.

Shield us.

Remove from us every enemy,

pestilence, sword,
famine, and sorrow.

Remove all adversaries from
before us and from behind us,

and shelter us in the
shadow of your wings.

For you are our
guarding and saving God,

yes, a gracious and
compassionate God and king.

Guard our going out and our coming in
for life and peace, now and always.

I was thinking.

The rock may be the foundation of the building,
but it's not what is seen most prominently.

- Or the highest point.
- Exactly.

So, maybe we can ask Jesus that if
Simon is going to be the main rock

on which his church is built...

I'm pretty sure Jesus
is the main rock.

One of the main rocks on
which his church is built,

then perhaps we could
be the flags, huh?

Flying from the
tallest parapet, huh?

- What about parapets?
- Nothing.

I think I know and
I don't like it.

So, now that there aren't two Simons
anymore, can I have my name back?

[all] No.

[indistinct chatter]

- Good morning, my friend.
- Good morning.

- What do we have here?
- We have carobs, mulberries, pistachios.

Pistachios would be
wonderful this morning.

Judas, do we have enough in
the purse for 16 servings?

- Probably only if they're in shell.
- The shell is no problem at all.

- Sixteen servings, please.
- Okay.

Nathanael, Thaddeus.

Help distribute, eh?

Please.

Thank you.

They look delicious.

- Here you go. Thank you so much.
- Thank you, Rabbi.

Thank you so much, sir.

- All right, my friend.
- Yeah.

Thank you, Nathanael.

- There we go. Philip.
- The basket.

- The basket, oh.
- Thank you.

Enjoy.

- Oh, and Andrew.
- Thank you.

And you, and me.

Look at that, divided the eight
portions evenly down to the last nut.

Skills.

These are salty and
going to make us thirst.

- Simon, is your canteen full?
- Peter. Name's Peter.

Right.

You do know it's going to take us all
a little time to get used to "Peter."

We're only mortal.

To answer your first question,
yes. This canteen is full.

All right, then.

So...

my brother is the rock.

- It feels like I should walk a little straighter.
- Uh-huh. Yeah. In more ways than one.

You're going to have to
stop bottling up your panic

to the point that it all comes exploding
out at the most inconvenient time.

I think I handled John's death
better than I would have a year ago.

And I'm gonna have to start...

I don't know. I don't know where to
start. He didn't give any details.

He did, but they were...

cryptic.

Like in Hebrew school,

when Rabbi Mordecai would read
from that passage from Shemot

where God would meet Moses at the
lodging place and tried to k*ll him.

Strangest story ever, eh?

And then his wife circumcised their son and
touched the foreskin to his feet and said...

[both] "Surely you are a
bridegroom of blood to me."

And then he just...

- Moved right along.
- On to the next passage.

No explanation, no nothing.

We're all left sitting
there, completely confused.

But Jesus isn't Rabbi Mordecai.

Yeah, well, we're not little boys
fidgeting and wanting to go play outside.

This is real.

You know, I had a bad time
when Eden lost the baby.

I questioned him.

You had the faith to step out
of the boat onto the water.

And sink.

You know, Nathanael was
right. We're only mortal.

If I mess up again, will he change his
mind and give the title to someone else?

- Don't think about that.
- But I do, Andrew. I do. I...

You didn't notice me tossing
and turning all night?

I sleep like a
dead person, Simon.

- Peter. Peter.
- Yeah.

- Peter. Peter. Peter.
- Okay.

- Good. Good.
- Peter. Peter.

[indistinct chatter]

So, how do you decide?

Decide what?

- What to include.
- Oh.

I noticed you didn't write down
the exchange with the merchant.

If it was important,
I would know.

But how?

There's this look that Jesus
gives me, and then I know.

- We have an understanding.
- Hmm.

You must feel so honored...

to be his scribe.

I suppose.

Are you feeling well?

- Hmm?
- You haven't eaten any of your pistachios.

Oh, um...

I'm saving them for later.

Was that the look?

Does he want you to write down
this conversation with me?

No. I'm supposed to be
doing something else.

- Oh.
- If you'll excuse me, Tamar.

Shalom.

- You gonna finish those?
- You can have them.

Thank you.

Andrew, could I have a
moment with your brother?

Sorry. No.

You have to submit a formal
request to speak to the rock.

In writing.

I'm joking.

I'm joking. I'm joking.
Of course, you can.

- I'm going to go watch James and John pout.
- You go do that, yeah.

- Good morning.
- I'm sorry.

- I said, "Good morning."
- No, I heard you.

I said I'm sorry...

for what I did to you.

It has been over a year now,

and I realize I never actually apologized for
my role in your plight with your tax debt,

and for colluding with Quintus
on reporting your activity.

It's strange.

After the sermon, the big one,

I immediately went to my parents
to apologize for my actions.

I should have gone to you next.

And now my feelings are worse

and they won't be better if I
don't ask for your forgiveness.

So, that's what I'm doing now.

Well, actually, I'm
just saying I'm sorry.

Forgiveness is a gift
that you can give.

Or not give.

[Jairus speaking indistinctly]

- Confirmed.
- Noted.

[Akiva] What's
all the commotion?

An edict.

From Jerusalem.

By name.

They named him specifically
for a challenge of blasphemy.

Jesus of Nazareth.

How could this have advanced
through the council so quickly?

I think we both know.

I cannot envisage
a positive outcome.

- Jairus, it's time.
- For what?

I'm going to leave Capernaum
and go to Jerusalem.

Where you will...?

Do something I swore
I would never do.

You are a resourceful man. I assume
you're aware of who my father is.

I am. Arnan.

Then you know his
resources, his influence.

Normally, I would insist you not
abandon me here with Rabbi Akiva.

But that would be selfish.

You will do more good as a member of
the Sanhedrin than you can in Capernaum.

I didn't believe that until now.

- Can you expedite the paperwork?
- I can, and I will.

Thank you.

Adonai be with you, my friend.

[ominous music playing]

So, do I call you Peter too?

Or is that just him?

Ah, I think, uh...

everyone.

From now on.

Forever.

There are so many
Simons in this world.

I've never met
anyone named Peter.

It suits you.

One of a kind.

Good night.

[♪igh♪]

[tense music playing]

[no audible dialogue]

I...

Peter, it's pretty late.

I could say the same to you.

- I suppose you could.
- Something keeping you up?

I could ask the same of you.

What do I do when there is
someone who has sinned against me?

Egregiously, repeatedly,
and without repentance.

I can't imagine
who that would be.

The betrayal of our people by
working for Rome, that was one thing.

That was a sin against all
of us and our heritage.

Then, he showed no mercy when
Andrew begged him for extra time

on his tribute debt

and even charged an extra


You know he was gonna let Rome
seize our boat as collateral,

which would have taken our ability
to work and landed us both in jail.

Meaning Eden could have starved.

He didn't even hesitate for a moment
when Quintus asked him to spy on me.

I'm up to seven and I haven't
even gotten to the fact

that he was fully ready to
turn me in the morning that...

The morning that what?

- You know.
- I do.

He may have been ready to turn you
in, but it didn't come to that.

So for the moment,
let's keep it at seven.

A number of completion.

He sins against me seven times and
I'm supposed to just forgive that?

No.

Not seven, but 77 times.

I could stack them up that high

if I really broke down each
offense and the consequences.

[Jesus chuckle♪]

You know, I don't mean
literally 77 times.

Seventy times seven.
Completion times completion.

Endless forgiveness
without limits.

Look, a couple of days ago,

you gave me a new name and
made big proclamations.

But whether my name
is Simon or Peter,

I'm still the same man I
was the day before that.

I'm still human
and I can't do it.

I can't. And no
one would blame me.

You mentioned the consequences
of Matthew's actions.

- Remember the circumstances they put you in?
- Yeah, that's all I can think about.

That's why I'm out here and
not asleep next to Eden.

But after that,
when the sun rose...

I know it's hard.

Why does everything have to be?

Man makes it much harder when he
leans on his own understanding.

I'll leave you alone now.

You know why they're still here?

I'll tell you.

Because they're comfortable.

You may not think so because
they live in a tent city

while you live in houses with
solid roofs over your heads.

But the fact of the matter is,

if they really had a problem
sleeping on the ground in squalor,

they would have left
a long time ago.

We cannot affect what the
pilgrims are willing to endure

for even the faintest chance they'll get to
hear more teaching from Jesus of Nazareth.

- They are intractable.
- Wrong!

That's the problem
with you, Gaius.

You accept everything as given.

The pilgrims may
be intractable now,

but use your imagination.

One week from today, I want
every last one of them gone

and someone else's problem
entirely. Do you understand?

Yes, dominus.

Mm.

Now get out.

- Where do we start, primi?
- I will think of something.

[Matthew] Gaius.

Good morning, Matthew.

Does not look like a good
morning. Are you unwell?

It's just...

Uh, work.

I'm fine, Matthew.

You have some talent, Gaius.

- Thank you.
- But you are not an effective liar.

It is clear you're not fine.

- Is your family in trouble?
- What do you know about families?

Look...

Um...

I am glad that you
have people now.

But home is complicated.

I'm helpless.

You're right, Gaius.

I don't know families very well,
and I complicate everything.

- Don't say that.
- But my teacher, he...

He makes life very simple.

Every morning I wake up, my
ideas and fears are jumbled.

I feel overwhelmed
with doubt and regret.

Yes.

But if I just pause for
a moment and remember...

What? What? Remember what?

I have only one
thing to do today.

Follow him.

The rest takes care of itself.

Uh...

I'm happy for you.

You could come.

To see him.

He might give a sermon
soon. Maybe tomorrow.

No. No.

I would not advise any public
appearance. Not for a while.

- I do not decide when or where.
- If you have any influence, use it.

It's not safe.

And we should not
be seen talking.

Take care of yourself.

- James, is this long enough?
- How many jars do we have?

- Four.
- Four?

[Big Jame♪] Yes.

- They said they had four jars coming in.
- James, how long is this supposed to be?

Uh, I think that's
good. Give it a try.

I have to get two knots
out of it. Abba does two.

[Big Jame♪] Just
tie it one time.

We need three men to help in the
olive grove today with pruning.

- I can help.
- I'll go.

- I'm in.
- Thomas, Thomas, wait... Um...

- Matthew, could you go?
- Go where?

The women need help with the
pruning in the olive grove.

- I suppose I could help.
- Great.

- [Andrew] What am I doing?
- I have not.

[Ramah] Here you are.

We need to go to the market.

- What?
- Simon's right.

- Peter.
- Whatever.

You shouldn't take Ramah up on
this whole scrap of clothing thing.

I talked to Abba, and he agrees.
It sounds romantic for now,

but in ten years' time, she'll
wish you had bought her something.

That's the problem. Bought?
We don't have any money.

Eema's famous cinnamon cakes.

- Hmm?
- We'll barter. Hmm?

Let's go.

How much could those
possibly get us?

You'll be surprised. It's just a
starter. We'll work our way up, eh?

[indistinct chatter]

I forgive you.

It's all forgotten.

To the ends of the earth, right?

- Hmm?
- Yes.

It's over.

[theme music playing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
