04x05 - Sitting, Serving, Scheming

[indistinct chatter]

Galilean Jews.

Twelve, and two women.

Huh. I was told there may be as
many as four women in your company.

You are followers of
Jesus the Nazarene?

- Who's asking?
- I have a package...

for Andrew and
Simon, sons of Jonah.

- You didn't answer his question.
- What's in the box?

I'm the messenger, not the sender. I
was only given delivery instructions.

Whomever of you is
Andrew, step forth.

Me!

Tell us who sent you
and maybe we'll explain.

Whoa, easy.

Till we meet again, boys.

I don't go by Simon anymore.

Whoever sent this is working
with outdated information.

And they didn't know Ramah died.

And why did they
put your name first?

I'm the older brother.

Maybe it was someone
who knew Andrew better.

Could it be from the Baptizer?

Dead people can't send packages.

Yeah, that makes sense.

What do we got here?

We could get a week's worth of
rations for selling the box.

John definitely couldn't
have afforded this.

Remember the bag of gold that
someone left for us before Samaria?

I also remember the bag of dead crows
that a malcontent sent to Tel-Dor.

People have sent letters asking for
healings and signs in their towns.

- Maybe from someone who needs help.
- They're trying to buy a miracle from Jesus.

We did receive a gift of
gratitude from Fatiyah,

the Nabatean leader in
Decapolis after the feeding.

And why was Andrew's name first?

Maybe there is a rabid animal
inside sent to attack and k*ll us.

Okay.

- Smells safe to me.
- Just open it.

- [hisse♪]
- [gasp♪]

[all chuckling]

It's from Joanna.

"For the uninterrupted continuity of the
teachings and deeds of Jesus of Nazareth."

[all chuckling]

We need to split up the work of selling
these in order to liquidate quickly.

- It would take one person far too long.
- So split it up.

Hmm?

Oh, me? Right now? Yes.

Ah...

Silver cooking blades.

Uh, Zee?

I have someone for these.

- Oh, wow, silk from the Far East.
- Oh.

No, I don't think
that's a good idea.

But you know the value, Matthew. You
know how to get a good price for it.

I thought we all agreed that
Judas would handle the money.

I am. Just bring me back
whatever you can get for it.

We trust you,
Matthew. Indefinitely.

Lapis lazuli.

- Amethyst, carnelian, jasper...
- [John] Valuable?

Beyond rubies.

This will do nicely. I
can promise you that.

[Peter] Big James, go with
Tamar and Mary to market.

- Make sure no one bothers them.
- Mm.

Uh, all that's left are coins.

And the box itself.

Go on and sell the
box, Nathanael.

- I'll come with you.
- Hmm.

And the coins?

Judas, take the coins and
put them in the purse.

I can do.

- What are you all waiting for? Go.
- Let's go.

[indistinct chatter]

And let's make these gifts
from Joanna go a long way.

[chatter continue♪]

- [Big Jame♪] Go to the market.
- [John] Grab this.

[theme music playing]

♪ Oh, child, come on
in Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with
the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water, ooh ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ You walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

You, Gedera of the Sadducean persuasion,
insist there is no resurrection of the dead.

The Holy Law of Adonai makes
no mention of an afterlife.

It's right there in
the songs of David.

David is not Torah.

According to the
Doe of the Dawn...

- "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
- Yes. Yes.

But further down near the end.

"All the prosperous of
the earth eat and worship;

before Him shall bow all
who go down to the dust."

- I'm so tired of this line of reasoning.
- And then here, in the Prophet Daniel.

"And many of those who sleep in the
dust of the earth shall awake...

some to eternal life, and some to
shame and everlasting contempt."

I don't know how
anyone can refute that.

Metaphorical language.

It's about Israel's national resurrection from
being muddled amid the dust of the Gentiles.

"Awakening" refers to
the coming of Messiah,

when Jews who love God's law will
arise from their spiritual slumber,

while those who reject the Messiah
will be put to shame and contempt.

Rabbi Gedera, how do you interpret
the words "eternal life"?

Hayei Olam.

God's immutable law is eternal.

A life committed to studying Torah is a life
centered on matters of eternal importance.

That's Hayei Olam.

How does the Sadducees'
rejection of an afterlife

lead to more faithful adherence
to Torah in practical terms?

Practicality is
our entire agenda.

I would direct your attention to the
words of the Fifth Book of Torah.

"You shall therefore be careful to
do the commandment and the statutes

and the rules that I
command you today."

God's will is that we carry
out His decrees here, today,

not in some imagined
next world, but this one.

The Pharisees' hyper-literal
reading of the Prophet Daniel

is both dangerous
and distracting.

If all your work is only to
receive a reward in the afterlife,

it makes you blind to the realities
of the one you're living in right now.

How would you respond to the accusation
that the Sadducees' wealth and social status

make your interpretation
all too convenient?

Your class is so
comfortable in this life.

Why should you worry
about the next one?

Ordinary Jews live lives
of such discomfort...

that the hope of a better
life in the resurrection

is what they have to cling to.

And you, Rabbi Zebediah, you
decline the daily Sanhedrin feasts?

Gedera, you are to address his
interpretation, not his status.

Hypocrites!

Both of you accused my supposed affluence
of distorting my interpretation.

We are both provided for.

The point remains as much
as you'd like to ignore it.

Yanni, please take over.

Rabbi Gedera...

- Yussif.
- Brother.

What are you doing here?

This way. Come, come here.

I saw your name on the attendance for
Sanhedrin, and I thought it was a mistake.

So did I, honestly.

You finally did it, leaned into
your abba's wealth and connections.

I never thought I'd see the day.

Well, it's here.

Well, you could have used
your inheritance years ago.

To do what? I knew
nothing but scholarship.

I had to minister
to our people first.

Setting aside my own jealousy,
I imagine your abba was upset.

Yes, but his recent contribution
indicates he's gotten over it.

That was something in there.

Do you think the Sadducees
have a valid point?

The only thing I
agreed with him on

was that you ought not to
have brought his fortunes

into the argument.

Let the interpretation
stand on its own merits.

Sensitive about
money, are we, Yussif?

We both used whatever means
necessary to lay hold of our seats.

You used bureaucratic
triangulation, I used my abba.

- Why does my way sound worse?
- What matters now is that we are both here.

The only question that remains is what
we will do with our new positions.

Well, fair point.

Although, I thought I did know what
I came here to do, and lately...

I'm not so sure.

- What has changed?
- Hmm.

Let me show you around.

Well, we'll reach the
Holy City by nightfall.

Well before night, if
we keep a steady pace.

Should we plan to set up camp in the same
spot that we did for the Feast of Tabernacles?

It's not a holiday. And the
camp would draw attention.

- People are on the lookout for him.
- [Andrew] What then?

An inn?

[Peter] Same problem.

There's eyes everywhere, and
documentation, records for visitors.

After Joanna's gift, we do
have enough to stay at an inn.

Perhaps several, to spread
us out and avoid suspicion.

We could put him in a
disguise, use fake names?

Fake names? And violate
the Eighth Commandment?

Ninth.

He's right, John.
Lying is the ninth.

The order does not
matter. Lying is lying.

Zee, you have a
brother in Jerusalem.

- Yes, Jesse.
- The last time I saw him, he was homeless.

That could have changed.
He certainly did.

But I don't think his lodging
would accommodate us all.

[♪igh♪] So does anyone have a rich
uncle in the upper city or something?

[Peter] Judas says we have
enough to stay under a roof,

if we can just find a way to
keep Rabbi's identity a secret.

And hide his presence
from Jerusalem.

Has anyone tried to
contact Nicodemus?

We do not know his
heart or his intentions.

I spoke with him, John.
He had an open heart.

Good morning.

- Shalom.
- Good morning.

Shalom.

- Master, where would you like to stay?
- The property of my friend, Lazarus.

- I thought he was in Bethany.
- Correct.

So we will not go directly
into Jerusalem tonight,

but we will stay over with
Lazarus and his sisters.

And I'm eager to see my eema.

So let's get to the
road quickly, huh?

How can I help?

[indistinct chatter]

[upbeat music playing]

[Decanu♪] Halt!

Jewish citizens.

Everyone remain calm.

Disarm yourselves and leave your
bags. You're carrying ours now.

Under Roman law, a soldier can
force a Jew to carry his things.

At random?

[Matthew] There is a legal limit. A
maximum of one mile and no further.

- [♪oldier 1] Quiet.
- [♪oldier 2] Hold this.

Master, this is humiliating.

We will comply, with dignity.

[♪oldier 3] Here.

[♪oldier laugh♪]

- [♪oldier 1] Higher. Higher.
- [♪oldier 2] Pick it up, pick it up.

[♪oldier 3] Don't trip.

[♪oldier 1] Hold
it higher. Higher.

[♪oldier] What must it be like,

walking around all day with no
metal weighing your head down?

Ever have helmet hair?

[laughing]

You too.

Here.

- I'll take that.
- I'm not made of straw, Matthew.

- I can carry it.
- Mary, please.

Hurry along, rats!

Rats with nice hats.

[♪oldiers chuckling]

[♪oldier 1] Move it, move it.

[♪oldier 2] You'll
be a soldier now.

- Master, let me take that. You should...
- No, no.

It is no more unsuitable on
my head than any of yours.

- We both know that is not true.
- Thank you for your concern, Judas.

In the months since I last saw you in Capernaum,
how have you grown in wisdom and stature?

Other than coming to your senses that
you can leverage your family's wealth?

- Will you stop with that?
- Fine.

But you're not the same impressionable
Yussif that I knew in Galilee,

always struggling
with your tallit.

I have become more committed,
discerning and observant, Shmuel.

Who are the men we walked
past at the entrance?

I thought you said
you were observant.

I meant in worship.

Okay, so you're observant.

Now let's find out if
you make observations.

I know what scribes are.

We also call them lawyers in the
sense that they are chief authorities

on the sacred Law of Moses,

interpreters and arbiters of
God's covenant with Israel.

They're not dressed as nicely
as most lawyers I know.

It's an unpaid position.

They have a second job to support
what they do here, free of charge.

Why work for no compensation?

In hopes of finding favor with
someone influential in here

and securing a seat
if one opens up.

- "Whatever means necessary."
- Exactly.

What about them?

- Amethyst and topaz rings, popular in Greece.
- Mm-hm. Mm-hm.

Athenian blue headdresses.

Hellenized Jews
visiting from Decapolis?

Hellenized, yes,
but not visitors.

- Herodians.
- Oh, of course.

Supporters of the client king Herod
Antipas, and by extension, Rome.

They hope to secure greater
political influence for themselves

at the expense of
the rest of Israel.

Very morally compromised,
selfish, misguided.

- The zealots hate them.
- Oh, they hate us too.

True. Everyone who isn't
a zealot. Even them.

Payot. Seeing those
less and less.

Following to the letter,

"You shall not round off the hair of your
temple or mar the edges of your beard."

Devotees of the
House of Shammai?

They're probably complaining about
the Hillel acolytes right now.

But they are committed
to Torah equally.

Only Shammai is more literal, while
Hillel focuses on the broader principle.

The latest dispute?

Whether you should tell a
bride on her wedding day

that she is beautiful
even if it is not true.

I'm guessing Shammai says no
because it would be a lie.

Correct, and Hillel maintains that a bride
is always beautiful on her wedding day.

A bigger story of
God and His people.

Be careful who you
say that around.

I have a feeling
about you, Yussif.

You weren't lying when you said
you are observant. Discerning.

Shmuel?

Is something wrong?

Wrong?

Throughout history, men
have called their age

"confusing times,
troubled times."

Ours is no different, I suppose.

I can honestly say
I'm glad you're here.

You've done well.

Thank you, Rabbi.

Everyone!

Attention, everyone, please.

I have an entreaty to make.

I got you, okay? I got
you. I got you, Matthew.

It's not that I'm humiliated.

I am.

It's that I'm so murderously
angry they're doing this to him.

[Philip] Mm-hm.

I've done this plenty.

It doesn't get any
easier the next time.

Which one of you
does this belong to?

[♪oldiers laughing]

[♪oldier 1] Come on.

I never could have imagined
a moment like this.

He said to submit.

So we submit.

The painful irony of
some of his teaching.

You know what the holy men who
perform the circumcisions say?

- What?
- What?

[♪oldier 1] Don't drop it.

"The pay is lousy, but
we get to keep the tips."

[♪oldiers laughing]

Decanus, the sign
is the mile marker.

[Decanus groan♪]

[Decanu♪] In your entire lives,

I bet you've never been so grateful
for the enshrined Roman law.

We know this has been
an honor for all of you.

Stop here!

I said stop!

[Jesu♪] Your destination is
that outpost a mile ahead, yes?

It is. But we're only
permitted one mile.

By coercion.

There's no law against citizens assisting you
the rest of the way of their own volition.

Come, my friends.

- But...
- If anyone says anything...

say that we offered.

Rabbi, what are we doing?

Why would we just help Romans?

Judas.

Where did we meet?

At the sermon on
the Korazim plain.

Good.

Whenever you are troubled,
think back on my message.

Maybe let us take back the helmets so
there's no confusion at the outpost.

If you like.

- [♪oldier 1] Here.
- [♪oldier 2] Give me that. All right.

- [♪oldier 3] Yeah, hand me that.
- [♪oldier 4] I'll take it.

[♪oldier 5] I've got it.

Hey, if anyone forces
you to go one mile...

Go with him two.

But we have gained new insight
which calls for revisiting.

We all still mourn when we recall
how the Governor Pontius Pilate

did so barbarously
appropriate funds

from the temple treasury for the
construction of the Bier Aqueduct

to bring water into Jerusalem.

And worse yet, we
still grieve...

the lives lost of those who rose in
protest to resist this provocation...

and were crushed...

dismembered, disemboweled...

and impaled on poles, made
an example of for all,

that none should defy Pilate's
designs for this city,

nor the means by which he
deigns to carry them out.

Gedera, you do us harm by
reviving this abominable anecdote.

We are still trying to heal.

It would be irresponsible to ignore the
ways in which this cataclysmic bloodbath

may now prove instructive.

Instructive?

Credible intelligence
has reached our ears

that the event was a source of pain
not only to us but to Pilate himself.

The sniveling child has
proven incapable of remorse.

Not when his job is threatened.

Emperor Tiberius was appalled, both
by Pilate's stealing from the funds,

inexcusable, even
by Roman standards,

and abundantly more so by the brutality
with which he struck down our response.

What are you saying?

It would appear...

however improbable...

that we now want the
same thing as Pilate.

- Is he losing his mind right now?
- I have no idea what he is talking about.

Peace.

Pilate wants peace.

Or at least, Caesar does.

Emperor Tiberius Caesar Augustus
is not fond of Pontius Pilate.

Exactly. Pilate's position as the
procurator of Judea is on the line.

He was reprimanded and warned when
he sent out troops to k*ll Galileans

while they were offering
sacrifices in our temples,

and then given a second warning
for the aqueduct m*ssacre.

He was already too young and in
over his head for this position,

and now he is
officially on notice.

Then let's make something
happen so we can get rid of him.

- Yes.
- Uh, short-sighted, Zebediah, as usual.

- Ah!
- I submit we take advantage

of his tenuous situation.

Take care of some things
we've been putting off.

Such as?

Eh, that's for this governing
body and its committees to decide.

We could suggest to Pilate...

a revolutionary leader is
fomenting an overthrow for, say...

removing the Roman votive
shields from the palace.

He does not take
kindly to bribery.

What are his other options?

[indistinct chatter]

Yussif, hold your tongue.

- I have a seat. I'll use my voice. This is absurd.
- Listen, I know what you mean. Come here.

I know you have things you want
to achieve, but you're new.

No one knows you.
You'll be shouted down.

Then where do I start?

Pick your battles.

What do you want to accomplish?

Whatever you came here for,

the key is to get on a committee
of men committed to the same ends.

- What are the committees?
- The entire range of Jewish interests.

There's a committee on Ritual
Purity and Sacrificial Inspection.

Very practical.

Tithes and Treasury,
Agriculture and Food Law,

Education and Labor, Sabbath
and Festival Observance.

- It depends what you came here for.
- I came to make a difference.

- Everyone says that at first.
- And then what happens?

I'm trying to help you.

Yussif, you come from a
prominent business family,

and yet you chose to work among
the common people in rural Galilee

where there's no room for
intellectuals like us.

But at some point, you decided to move on
from your youthful, righteous posturing.

- It was not posturing.
- Youthful idealism.

- You decided to grow up.
- Don't insult me.

Do you lean toward Hillel interpretations
due to contact with Nicodemus?

Did your time with Nicodemus
have the opposite effect on you?

None of those committees
sounded very interesting to me.

There are short-term
assignments too.

There is a select committee
on Temple Renovation.

Liturgical Reform, Reclamation of
Beersheba at the Southern Border.

- Beersheba? Part of Edom, right?
- Yes.

We all want the whole land
of Israel as God promised,

but these men are especially hung up on
a passage from the time of the Judges

that describes the borders of Israel, from
north to south, as "From Dan to Beersheba."

They want to take it back,
restore the original borders.

Well, I cannot think of anything
more tiresome or futile.

I can.

Preservation of Davidic Artifacts
for the National Archive,

Investigation into
the Authorship of Job.

Theorization of Fulfilled Late
Babylonian-Exilic Prophecies,

Historical Accuracy of
the Books of Judith and...

Wait. What was the one
about Babylonian prophecies?

Ah, it's academic.

Well, a proposed list of prophecies
from the time of Nebuchadnezzar II

that may have been realized through
the reign of Antiochus Epiphanes

and which ones are
yet to be fulfilled.

That one.

Really?

Mm-hm.

You suddenly seem very sure.

I am.

Well, let's get you
an introduction.

- [Nathanael] So, Jesus.
- [Jesu♪] Yes?

When you said go another
mile, it's actually three...

[all chuckling]

including the two to come
back and get our stuff.

It's a miracle it's still here.

[Jesu♪] That's right.

I'm very proud of you.

I know how hard
that was for you.

But you all did so well.

Now, on to Bethany.

Uh, Rabbi?

Judas, how are you feeling?

I'm exhausted.

I'm still not used to life on
the road, being an evangelist.

Oh, yeah?

Give it time.

And I'm tired too.

We're almost there.

You can see it up ahead.

- Have you been to Bethany?
- Yes.

Uh, actually, I
wanted to ask you.

While you spend
time with your eema,

I was wondering if it would be all right
for me to visit an old associate in town?

- Old?
- Uh, former associate.

Ah.

He took me on as an apprentice
after my father died.

Sounds like an important person.

Not more important than
you. Don't get me wrong.

It's okay, Judas. I understand.

By all means, go and see him.

But let's wait until
after supper, huh?

Yeah, yeah.

Wait for it.

- [Mary of Bethany] Jesus!
- [chuckle♪]

You're here!

[Jesu♪] I think we're
at the right place.

At last! Come, come.
All of you, this way.

Hi, Mary.

Adonai in heaven.

And why is my dearest
Martha hiding in the house?

My Lord.

Oh, Rabbi. Please pardon
the state of the house.

- I...
- It's fine.

What is the meaning of this?

You barge in here unannounced
with these people?

Our Martha, distressed?

Lazarus, we were just passing
through and thought we could...

And you thought this was an inn,
huh? Do you know how busy I am?

[♪coff♪] The nerve.

We were just passing through and thought we
could crash, but I guess I thought wrong.

[Lazaru♪] Oh, we got him.

- [Jesu♪] How are you?
- It's so good to see you, my friend.

So good to see you.

- You should have seen your faces.
- Gotta keep them on their toes.

Jesus, what can I get
you? Water, olives, wine?

Uh, something better
than all of those.

Something better than those?

- Such an eema's boy.
- You know me.

She went to the woods
to pick berries.

Ah.

- Alone?
- [Lazaru♪] I try.

I really do. But
you know how she is.

I know. She's
impossible to hold down.

Honestly, she's the only one in this household
who knows which berries aren't poisonous

and where to find
the tastiest ones.

She's had a lot of practice.

- Lazarus, go get her.
- Why? Mary's here.

It's fine. It's fine.
She'll be back before dark.

- Let's just all sit, huh?
- Yes, of course.

You must have had a terribly
long journey. Please.

[Lazaru♪] Come, join us.

[indistinct chatter]

- Smells delicious.
- Oh, thank you.

[indistinct chatter]

Over here.

Zebediah.

This is Yussif, son of Arnán.

Ah, yes. Recently appointed,
I hear. Congratulations.

Thank you, Rabbi.

It was of note to see your name
show up on the list out of nowhere.

- I wouldn't say...
- Let's cut right to it.

- Where did you get the money for your seat?
- Zebediah!

My family owns a prominent
construction business in Jerusalem.

[♪coff♪] Land ownership would
be one thing, but construction?

How vulgar.

Yussif!

That was the chair of the
Prophecy Fulfillment committee.

What's so vulgar
about construction?

They think the new buildings are
a blight on the city's aesthetic.

Gedera. That was a marvelous
speech on Pilate you gave today.

So will you support me?

Let's schedule a lunch with
you and my colleague Yanni.

- This is Yussif, son of Arnán and...
- I know Arnán.

He built my home.

Which rabbi sponsored
your application?

Annas, son of Seth.

A fellow Sadducee. Hmm.

I won't bother asking why he sponsored
a new member from the rival party.

I already know the answer.

We are all sons of Israel, though
we may disagree on particulars.

The next time you see your
abba's old friend, Annas,

tell him I want to talk
about his sons' booths.

They've been buying up market
stalls on Mount of Olives

even before they're
listed as being for sale.

I want to know who
his contacts are.

I may have to sing Caiaphas a
song about Annas' son-in-law

and a certain
sl*ve-beating incident.

He'll know what I'm talking
about, I assure you.

You want me to threaten him?

This way, Yussif. We have so
many people to meet today.

Gedera, let me know about lunch.

Speaking of lunch, let's
eat. I'm exhausted.

- I'm exhausted.
- Over here.

[indistinct chatter]

That's interesting.

The horses love it.

[Jesus & Lazarus laughing]

How is your vineyard holding up?

It's been especially dry as
of late, but we're managing.

What's the going day rate
for waterers and pruners?

- Why? You need a job?
- [laugh♪]

- Not working for you, that's for sure.
- [all laughing]

Same as carpentry.

- Come on.
- [Lazaru♪] Yeah.

- A denarius?
- [Lazaru♪] Yes.

- I'm disappointed. I thought you were shrewd.
- I'm a generous man.

That you are.

That reminds me of a story.

[metal clanging]

Is everything all right, Martha?

[Martha] I'm fine. Just, um...

I've got it. Carry on.

She's... Please, continue.

Okay.

The kingdom of heaven is
like the master of a house

who went out early in the morning
to hire laborers for his vineyard.

After agreeing with the
laborers for a denarius a day,

he sent them into his vineyard.

- Ah. You make it sound so simple.
- [Jesus chuckle♪]

And going out about
the third hour,

he saw others standing
idle in the marketplace.

And to them he said, "You,
go into the vineyard too.

And whatever is right,
I will give you."

So they went.

Thank you.

Going out again about the sixth hour
and the ninth hour, he did the same.

And about the 11th hour, he went
out and found others standing.

He said to them, "Why do you
stand here idle all day?"

They said to him, "Because
no one has hired us."

He said to them, "You, go
into the vineyard too."

When evening came, the owner of
the vineyard said to his foreman,

"Call the laborers and pay them their wages,
beginning with the last up to the first."

So when those hired at the 11th hour
came, each of them received a denarius.

Now, when those
hired first came,

they thought they would receive more, but
each of them also received a denarius.

And when they got it, they grumbled
at the master of the house saying,

"These last worked
only one hour,

and you've made them equal to us who've
been here all day in the scorching heat."

But he replied, "Friend,
I am doing you no wrong."

Did you not agree with
me for a denarius?

Take what belongs to you and go.

I choose to give to this
last worker the same.

Am I not allowed to do what I
choose with what belongs to me?

"Or do you begrudge
my generosity?"

So, the last will be
first and the first, last.

[Peter] Wait. Hold on.

The ones who worked the hour
were paid a full denarii?

That's 12 times more
than what they were owed.

Sounds to me like the owner of
the vineyard was getting cheated.

- Is the kingdom of heaven unjust?
- I get it.

I'm happy to be last.

[Jesu♪] Through earthly eyes,
I suppose it looks unfair.

But I didn't say the
kingdom of this world.

I said of heaven.

It's a different calculus,

where people are not measured
by what they deserve.

Thank you. This
looks delightful.

Would have been better if I
didn't have to do it all alone.

- Better?
- Yes, better.

More befitting of someone
as important as you.

It seems you didn't notice my
sister has left me to serve alone.

From the moment you got here, she
hasn't done a thing to serve you.

She's completely ignored everything I've
been doing to make all of you comfortable,

and it's clear that she's not going to
notice how hard I'm working on her own.

The only thing that could change
it is if you tell her to help me.

Martha, Martha, please,
sit down here with me.

How can I sit? Only half your
followers have been served.

We can discuss this later.

I'm sorry.

I know, but I want the
others to hear this.

There is nothing to
be embarrassed about.

You've done a wonderful thing.

You are anxious and
troubled about many things,

and it is not for nothing.

Hospitality will always matter, and
I am grateful for what you have done.

It's what you deserve and more.

Your intention is well-meaning,

but only one thing
is truly necessary.

The best way to serve me is to
pay close attention to my words.

That is the priority.

That is what your
sister has chosen.

It is a good portion...

and it will not
be taken from her.

Taken?

Your food, the servings.

They're wonderful,

but they'll pass away with
the rest of this world.

My words, they'll
never pass away.

Mary has chosen to feast on
something of eternal value.

I want you all to hear this
clearly. I do not rebuke Martha.

Acts of service are beautiful.

Action is good.

You're doing what you
thought was expected of you.

And what you do is valuable.

And Mary probably could
have helped a little.

But listen.

I don't want you distracted from
being able to be present with me

and the friends
that I have brought.

I'm inviting you to
something that is better.

To sit at my feet, listen
carefully to my words,

and devour them as a meal more
nourishing than actual food.

That said, I definitely don't want
to waste Martha's amazing food.

So, if you all got the lesson,
let's all thank her and eat.

Well done!

Thank you.

- Thank you, Martha.
- Wonderful, Martha.

Mm.

Divine.

That word coming from you?

Um, I like divine.

- [all laughing]
- I will bring in the rest, Andrew.

I'll help you, Lazarus.

What is that bright
flavor in the bread part?

I snuck a little bit of mint
and lemon into the dough.

- Brilliant.
- All right. Who didn't get any?

[clears throat]

You just had one.

No. Over here first.
Over here, first.

It was a small, small piece.

- I'll fight to the death.
- [all laughing]

[indistinct chatter]

[mouthing] I'm sorry.

- [Andrew] Give the small one to Little James.
- [Matthew] They are all the same size.

Hey, I've been pushing the cart
all day, and I feel that...

I've been pushing the cart.

[Jewish folk music playing]

[all vocalizing]

[all] Hey!

Hey! Hey! Hey!

[vocalizing continue♪]

[vocalizing continue♪]

My son!

[laughing]

Eema.

You're really here.

You're really here!

Yes, but, um...

there's a grave problem.

- Why? What happened?
- I don't know what to do.

It could ruin the whole night.

They've, um...

They've run out of wine.

- Oh, what ever will we do?
- I haven't a clue.

- [Juda♪] Uh, Rabbi?
- Hmm?

- Oh. I'm sorry to interrupt.
- Not at all.

Uh, you said after supper.

- Is now a good time?
- Yes. Please, give your friend my best.

It's very nice to
see you again, woman.

- Shalom. Shalom.
- [both] Shalom. Shalom.

Mm.

- It sounds like a party in there.
- It certainly is but, uh...

- Let's not go in just yet, huh?
- All right.

- Come with me to the well.
- The well?

- Your hair needs washing.
- Oh, does it?

I think it's pretty
good, actually.

So, are you enjoying
your new home in Bethany?

It's not home, but I
think both of us know

neither of us can
go back to Nazareth.

[Jesu♪] Hmm.

- Do you miss it?
- Nazareth is just a place.

And after the way
they treated you...

But Abba's tomb is there.

My thoughts dwell in the land
of the living, not the dead.

Hmm. Is Lazarus taking
good care of you?

[Mother Mary] Too good.

If it were up to him,
I'd sit inside all day,

shaded from the sun and doted on
by Martha like the queen of Sheba.

I had to put my foot down and
insist he let me contribute,

collecting seeds and berries.

So I've heard.

- Ow. Eema...
- Oh, hush. You're fine.

- I see your hair still knots like it used to.
- I see you're still not as gentle about it.

You got your strong hands
from me, don't you forget it.

As long as you don't lick your thumb
and wipe my face again, I'll be fine.

- Mm.
- Uh-oh.

Mm. No need. You lucked out.

[exhale♪] Thank goodness.

This reminds me of when
things were simple.

They weren't always
simple. We struggled.

Some nights your father and I
would have to make a decision

which one of us would eat.

I know.

It was important to learn
the uncertainty of poverty.

My followers...

they are poor in another sense.

Their way of understanding,
of listening, of faith.

Destitute, I'm afraid.

That bad?

They ask for earthly things,

positions of prestige on my
right hand and left, in glory.

They take offense when I show humility
and deference to the powers of this world

instead of, I don't know, turning the
Roman soldiers into pillars of salt.

They're only human.
What did you expect?

Also human.

Darling, I changed your swaddling
cloths when they were soiled.

Believe me, I'm aware.

What grieves me is the, uh...

yes, the very human feeling...

that no one understands this.

By no fault of their own.

They're simply incapable.

I speak the words of
my Father in heaven

and the religious leaders call
it blasphemy and plot against me.

Some people just generally
take it the wrong way.

My own followers say they agree,

but then they...
they act in a way

that makes it seem like they've
never absorbed a word that I've said.

What will it take for
them to understand?

Son?

Bitter.

What?

It's a bitter answer
to a bitter question.

Hmm.

You speak in parables.

I do, at times.

Remember when your father taught
you how to cut a dovetail joint?

[Jesu♪] Mm.

He didn't do it by
telling you a story.

He put his hands on your hands,

wrapped your fingers around
the tools, and guided you.

Cypress, oak, sycamore.

These obey the master's hands.

[both chuckle softly]

But human hearts...

that's another story.

Well, it doesn't hurt to try.

Being direct, I mean.

I tried it recently.

I told them exactly what was going
to happen. It didn't even register.

Hmm.

The human desire to
avoid difficult news...

sometimes makes one deaf.

True.

You'll figure it out.

Come on, let's go inside.

- I want to see how Simon is doing.
- Well, for starters, he has a new name.

Oh, really?

- Mm-hm.
- Like Abram to Abraham?

Kind of.

- You're still doing that old trick?
- Hades and Styx!

How did you get in?

The key was still
under the fennel plant.

You know, it's a best
practice to change the locks

and switch up the hiding places of
keys after terminating an employee.

I didn't terminate you. You quit.
I never thought I'd see you again.

Did everything fall apart?

- We're just passing through Bethany.
- Oh.

- Make yourself at home.
- Oh, sorry, I...

I should have knocked.

What is home for you these days?

We're nomadic. Mostly camping.

Your rabbi does not
have a home base?

Capernaum, I guess.

If you can call any
place we haunt a home.

We're strategically displaced
from Capernaum for the time being.

Too much attention.

I heard his fame and infamy
are spreading wildly.

Shouldn't he be
amassing an army,

not getting run out of backwater
towns in the north country?

I'm newer than the others, so...

- My opinion doesn't count for much.
- He could learn a lot from you.

He clearly does not understand the
importance of perception in business.

Business of any kind.

His image among religious leaders is
a problem. They're threatened by him.

Not just religious leaders.

I heard one of his followers was
m*rder*d by a high-ranking Roman.

- True or false?
- That was a terrible, tragic accident.

It was the praetor himself.

He was punished and
demoted for the incident.

They k*ll one of our citizens
and they get a stern talking to.

Can you imagine if we laid
a finger on one of them?

I mean, we're going to find out because
that has to happen pretty soon, right?

I assume.

Judas?

Look, Hadad...

he's the Messiah, no question.

He heals people.
He works miracles.

His teachings are like nothing
anyone's ever heard before.

- You said so yourself, remember?
- So why don't you sound convinced?

I remember that he did
not take up a collection.

That crowd was enormous.

He had every ear, every heart,

and therefore held all the
strings to every purse.

- All he would have had to do was ask.
- They would say that's what makes him great.

No one can call him a
charlatan or a con man.

- Which is more than I can say for myself.
- For needing to eat?

I admit.

I...

I don't understand what we're
doing or why we're doing it. I...

Or why we're not moving
much quicker. I...

I'm trying to learn.

In the meantime, I'm...

Hey, I'm not starving.

You were always skinny even when we were
eating like kings, so how would I know?

Do you have savings?

I try to be careful with
how I apportion out money.

I keep some aside for a dry
spell, but they're so frequent...

- What do you mean "I"?
- They put me in charge of the financials.

- Did you learn nothing from me?
- I've tried to forget.

Sorry. I'm...

I'm grateful for the
apprenticeship, but...

But now I'm trying to use what
I've learned to help the group.

And are you being compensated
for your specialized skill?

There is another with exquisite skill
in bookkeeping, but he won't go near it.

- He was a tax collector.
- Guilty conscience.

You're one to talk.

If you are the only one
qualified and willing,

then you deserve a stipend
for your specialized work.

Like the Proverbs
of Solomon say,

"Woe to him who makes his neighbor serve him
for nothing and does not give him his wages."

That's not Solomon.

It doesn't matter who said
it. The principle stands.

You also know how
to invest prudently.

It's just good business
to take a small portion

and put it in a bank where
it can collect interest.

Jesus has a parable
about that, actually.

- In favor of interest?
- Yes, very.

Then you have all the confidence to know
that you're doing what he wanted you to do.

I didn't come here
for advice, Hadad.

Then why are you here?
Outside of looking confused.

At a turn, holier-than-thou
and embarrassed.

You are angry, Judas.

Yes!

My understanding is shaken.

I know nothing except that
he is the one true Messiah...

and the future king of Israel
to sit on David's throne.

And he called me.

And called you with a purpose.

Until you figure out what,

you can at least make sure
that you have resources

to keep the mission going,

so that when he takes this
Davidic throne you speak of,

you are the natural choice to be Secretary
of the Treasury under his regime.

I...

I didn't think that far ahead.

They gave you complete
fiduciary responsibility.

Stop waiting for permission to better
the ministry or to make adult decisions.

They all need to grow up, you need
to get paid, and he needs to lead.

If you truly believe Jesus is
the future king of the Jews,

then help him act like it.

That's what he's
got you there for.

The session is adjourned.

Been quite a couple of days,
hasn't it, Rabbi Yussif?

Learned a lot?

- I've mostly learned I have a lot to learn.
- Everybody starts somewhere.

I'm still not one of the 72
like you. You'll catch on.

Take heart. Tomorrow's session
will not be as excruciating.

Everyone needs to get home
before Shabbat sundown.

Rabbi Lehad! Rabbi Yussif, come.

I never got the chance to
introduce you yesterday.

This is Lehad, son of Ethnan.

He chairs the Select Committee
on Reclamation of Beersheba

and Southern Border Reform
that I told you about.

It's an honor to make
your acquaintance, Rabbi.

I'll decide if the
honor is all mine

by deciphering through my
famous "either, or" questions.

- Yes, very famous indeed.
- Oh, what are they?

Haddock or sea bream?

- Uh...
- Just go with your first instinct.

Bream.

Rope sandals or bridle leather?

Rope.

- Hillel or Shammai?
- Hillel.

- Why?
- I sat at the feet of Rabbi Nicodemus.

The Teacher of Teachers,
feared by all, even Shammai,

even if he won't admit it, and
respected throughout all the land.

He's been away on a research
trip for several weeks.

Was he a special guest
instructor at your Hebrew school?

You seem a little
young for that.

He was visiting Capernaum
where I was interning.

Why did you choose Capernaum?

To be among the Galileans, the common people,
away from my family house in the upper city here.

Very noble. I'm impressed.

It calls to mind the story
of Samuel going to Bethlehem

to anoint one of the sons of
Jesse the next king of Israel.

They hadn't thought David worth
bringing in for Samuel to see.

You'll be surprised what you find
in the small, obscure places.

Indeed.

Rabbi Shmuel tells me you're interested
in redrawing the southern border of Israel

to encompass the
city of Beersheba.

[Lehad] That's right.

To honor God's original promise of
the land borders, north to south,

"From Dan to Beersheba."

Might be difficult to attract
much enthusiasm for such an agenda

when we have so much going on
with Rome, don't you think?

We have a strategy.

Beersheba may not seem like an urgent
matter to many in the Sanhedrin,

but we know what will
get their attention.

The death of Jesus of Nazareth.

I'm sorry?

- Surely you've encountered him in Capernaum.
- We have, but...

He's making enemies
everywhere for good reason.

There is a group in Tel-Dor that
sent a delegation to Jerusalem

to lobby for his
deposition and prosecution.

I had not heard there were
citizens moving to prosecute.

They claim his actions led to
the death of a man's daughter.

They're definitely
moving to prosecute.

He makes Jerusalem nervous,

and someone in Pilate's confidence
is said to have been at an event

at the Decapolis in which he
broke bread with heathens.

Rome is taking
him seriously now.

If he is arrested or even punished
by death due to our efforts,

it will draw attention
to our cause.

Forgive me.

I'm a bit surprised at how casually
you're speaking of the ending of a life.

Aren't capital punishments
only allowed in temple grounds?

When was the last time the
Sanhedrin carried one out?

He has also claimed
to be the Son of Man.

The politics of our decisions
aside, this is no innocent man.

Blood on your hands does not
always equate to wrongdoing.

Sometimes the
results can be just.

If this Nazarene continues his efforts,
the nation will practically thank us.

[groan♪] That was too many
olives. I need to slow down.

- This is for you.
- For me?

- [Martha] Yes.
- Really?

- [Lazaru♪] Look here, huh?
- [Andrew] Thank you.

[indistinct chatter]

- You're all good?
- [Jesu♪] Yeah.

- Need help with anything?
- [Jesu♪] No, I'm good. Thanks.

- I'll be back.
- [Jesu♪] All right.

All right, Eema. Oh!

- You take care.
- [Mother Mary] You too.

[Jesu♪] I love you.

[theme music playing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
