05x06 - Reunions

What is that supposed to mean?

Well, who is, and who isn't?

I have earnestly desired
to eat this meal with you before I suffer.

This is our last Passover together
on this earth,

before we celebrate it again
when all is fulfilled in the new Kingdom.

I would ask how long that will be...

but I know the answer.

You will understand.

But first...

Blessed are you,
Lord our God, King of the Universe,

who brings forth bread from the earth.

[all] Amen.

[Jesu♪] Normally,

this bread is to remember and celebrate
our redemption from Egypt

into the Promised Land.

From sl*very into freedom.

Tonight we celebrate your redemption
from sin because of me.

Take and eat it.

This is my body, which is given for you.

Do this in remembrance of me.

Blessed are you,
Lord our God, King of the Universe,

who creates the fruit of the vine.

[all] Amen.

Normally, the wine allows us to remember
and celebrate the blood of the lamb,

spread on the doorposts of our ancestors.

But tonight,

likewise...

this is my blood of the new covenant,

shed for you, and for many,
for the forgiveness of sins.

Drink it, all of you,
in remembrance of me.

I am the true vine.

And my Father is the vinedresser.

Every branch in me
that does not bear fruit, He takes away.

And every branch
that does bear fruit, He prunes,

that it may bear more fruit.

Abide in me, and I in you.

As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself
unless it abides in the vine...

neither can you, unless you abide in me.

I am the vine.

You are the branches.

Whoever abides in me, and I in him,

he it is that bears much fruit,

for apart from me, you can do nothing.

If anyone does not abide in me, he is
thrown away like a branch, and withers.

And the branches are gathered,
thrown into the fire, and burned.

If you abide in me,

and my words in you,

ask for whatever you wish,
and it will be done.

By this My father is glorified,
that you bear much fruit,

and so prove to be my disciples.

As the Father has loved me,
so I have loved you.

Abide in my love.

These things I have spoken to you,

that my joy may be in you,

and that your joy may be full.

[♪niffling]

[continues sniffling]

Rabbi.

What are you smiling at?

It's nothing. [♪tammer♪]
It's just that, uh...

Rabbi.

Earlier, I may have washed
some of your feet.

But not all of you are clean.

What are you saying?

The scripture has now been fulfilled.

"He who has eaten my bread
has lifted his heel against me."

What?

[Jesu♪] Truly, I say to you...

one of you will betray me.

Someone at this very table.

Someone in this room?

Who?

One of you, brothers?

Who?

Tell us who.

And we will bind him, and gag him,
and throw him in a pit, so he can't do it.

The Son of Man goes
as it is written of Him.

But woe to that man
by whom the Son of Man is betrayed.

It would have been better for him
if he had never been born.

Just say who it is.

And we'll make sure
that man wishes he'd never been born.

[♪niffle♪]

I need a moment.

[♪obbing]

[disciples muttering]

What's happening?

- What?
- Andrew.

["Walk on the Water" playing]

♪ Oh, yeah ♪

♪ Oh, child, come on in ♪

♪ Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[vocalizing]

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[Zebediah] And according
to our treasurer report,

the additional days needed

to complete the columns
in that section of Solomon's Porch,

will result in a 14% increase
over the original cost estimate.

The Temple Renovation Committee
unanimously approved the spending.

Although I'm sure to the surprise of
none of you,

Rabban Ozem required some convincing.

[all chuckling]

All right, all right.

From what I understand,
there is no additional business for today.

- This meeting is adjourned.
- [gavel bang♪]

[indistinct chatter]

- Rabbi Nicodemus.
- Ah.

- Welcome back.
- Thank you.

I trust your time was fruitful.

Oh, yes, yes. Good to be back, Ozem.

Did the students in Bethel show enough
appreciation for the Teacher of Teachers?

[chuckle♪] Yes, th-they were lovely,

but I'm sure they were glad
to be rid of me.

[both chuckling]

I'll see you in the morning
for the committee meeting, yes?

Yes. Yes, of course.

Shmuel.

Rabbi Nicodemus, welcome back.

Thank you. It's good to be back.

I understand congratulations are in order.

I'm sorry I wasn't here
to officially welcome you.

I'm honored to be part of it.

Thank you.

Yes, well...

- Well, shalom, shalom.
- Shalom, shalom.

I'll be at your quarters
in less than an hour, Rabbi Nicodemus.

I have to stop by the Education
and Labor Committee meeting first.

- I'll talk to you soon.
- Yes, yes.

And it's good to see you again.

Good to see you.

[Zebediah] The vote to approve
the Sabbath law adjustment proposal

was actually less
contentious than I expected.

You would have been surprised
at the cooperation

of some of our Sadducean friends,
even Gedera.

[Zebediah laughing]

Uh, let me see what else.

Just the highlights, Zebediah.

Understood.

Uh, Agricultural and Food Committee are
still working on their Jotapata analysis.

Oh, the Ritual Purity Committee
has decided that...

All right, you don't need
an update on that. Let me see.

Um... Ah.

I will say, I saw you
talking to Shmuel today.

- His inauguration day was quite something.
- Hmm.

Shammai gave the welcome speech,
and he really sang his praises,

giving him credit for some of the events

leading to the death of
the baptizer from Galilee.

President Shimon raised a ruckus
about that whole business.

Death? Of who?

The Baptizer?

John bar Zechariah, you know.

- The one who Herod had imprisoned.
- Of course I know who he is.

[♪tammer♪]
I encountered him directly in Capernaum.

He's dead?

Beheaded by Herod's court.

It was a whole sordid tale.
You hadn't heard?

- No.
- Oh.

How did you encounter him?

And did he call you a viper too?

No, no. Not-not quite. He...

But he was certainly a character.

- I visited him in prison there.
- Huh.

Beheaded?

Mmm, that was the story.

He had a cousin in Capernaum.

A teacher who was amassing a following,
doing signs and wonders.

Yes, Jesus bar Joseph.

You know the name?

Yes, he was the focus
of the larger discussion.

Caiaphas ended up giving
a whole speech about him.

Caiaphas? How...
How did this get to Caiaphas?

He's a rabbi all the way in Capernaum.

Your Bethel trip was too long, Rabbi.

Jesus has been traveling all over,

and these so-called signs and wonders
you mentioned have bedeviled the people.

He's the most popular Messiah claimant
in a while.

Shmuel had a whole damning report
about him.

Caiaphas had to issue an edict,
empowering district leaders

to bring him in for questioning
for false prophecy,

blasphemy, a litany of charges.

I can't believe you missed all this.

- You met him?
- That's all for today, Zebediah.

Thank you for your report.

[♪tammer♪] I'll see you in the morning?

- Uh, of course. Is everything all right?
- Yes, yes.

[♪tammer♪] It's just been a long day. I...

Uh, give-give Rebeckah my regards.

And you the same to Zohara.
We'll have to have dinner soon.

Yes, yes. I'll have Matthias set it up.

- Shalom, shalom.
- Shalom, shalom.

- Matthias.
- Yes, Rabbi?

I want you to drop everything you're doing
and listen to me carefully.

I have an assignment for you.

[Nicodemu♪] Mary of Magdala.

- Have you been looking for me?
- Yes.

Teacher, it's you.

Please, keep your voice down.
Not everyone in this house is awake.

Why so secretive? Why didn't your men
just tell me they were with you?

I am so sorry, but we had no choice.

I don't know what is in your head
at the moment,

how zealous you and the others are,
what you will say, and to whom.

You've not been discreet lately,
and I need to be.

Discreet? You're in the Sanhedrin.

Where is this place?

This is my home,
but you don't need to know where.

This city is crawling with
spies, agents, and informers.

I don't know why
you've been so difficult to reach.

I've really needed your help.
Where have you been?

Mary, it is very dangerous
what you are doing.

You were wise not to ask for me by name.

But it was clear to us
what you were up to.

Who is "us"?

You've had spies?

[Nicodemu♪] Not spies, just keeping track.

And your behavior could
well have accelerated His demise.

Accelerated? No, no.
You're getting bad information.

We've been on the run
from the moment we arrived.

Jesus has not passed up
a single opportunity to make an enemy.

I'm curious to know why you think that is.

- I'm sorry?
- Why is he doing this?

Why is he systematically
turning allies into enemies?

You know Him.

You've seen Him
challenge authority before.

- He won't shrink just because--
- Mary, this is something more.

- I will read you His own words.
- How?

My watchman was observing
and taking notes.

This from just two days ago.

You know, when He upended
the marketplace in the temple.

"Woe to you, scribes
and Pharisees, hypocrites.

For you are like whitewashed tombs,
who outwardly appear beautiful,

but within are full
of dead people's bones,

and uncleanness.

So you also outwardly appear
righteous to others,

but within are full of
hypocrisy and lawlessness."

Doesn't exactly sound like
an invitation to join Him, does it?

How long have you been tracking Him?

Long enough.

I don't understand. You've seen us?

You've been watching all of us?

Tell me why I shouldn't
be very uncomfortable with all of this.

He was only doing what I asked him to do.

I've not seen Jesus since Capernaum.

But when news reached Jerusalem

that He was claiming to be the Christ,
I had to.

You had to what? Spy?

Mary, I brought you here under duress,

so I'm trying to be patient
with your loose words.

But you need to listen.

I teach Torah and the foundations
of our faith to students all over Israel.

Please, try to understand
the immense responsibility for our people

that I feel on my shoulders
from Adonai Himself.

Every year, from every region,

someone comes along,
claiming to be the Messiah,

and trying to sway our people,
and mislead them.

Now, most of them are crushed
for their false prophecy

and we never even hear of them.

But when someone like Jesus
achieves this level of influence

over these many people,

performing these kinds
of signs and wonders,

all the while claiming to be the Christ,

and asserting His authority
over the law and leaders of our people...

I have a sacred duty to prove Him wrong.

What did you see?

What did he report to you?
You met him yourself. I helped arrange it.

I'm sure you saw who He is as well.

What did he see?

He saw the eyes of the blind opened.

The ears of the deaf unstopped.

The lame man leaping like...

Like deer.

And the tongue of the mute
singing for joy.

Isaiah.

"The people that walked in darkness
have seen a great light.

Those that dwelt in the land
of the shadow of death,

upon them a light has shined."

I love that one.

"But you, O Bethlehem,
too little to be among the clan of Judah,

from you shall come forth for me..."

[both] "One who is to be ruler of Israel.

One whose coming forth
is from of old, from ancient days."

[chuckle♪]

You now know He is the one
who fulfills these prophecies.

I prayed He wouldn't.

I needed Him to be a fraud.

- But I've seen too much.
- I know the feeling.

And you saw Lazarus?

[♪igh♪]

So why haven't you told this
to the others?

Why have you been absent?

I've been told you've not been seen
in Sanhedrin at all lately?

Apart from my present condition,

there is the question of trying
to get anything done in the Sanhedrin,

let alone the intricacies
of money, and politics, and fear

that guide most of them,
and govern their decisions.

And when it comes to false prophecy...

that is a wall I cannot climb.

I've been looking for you
because He needs your help.

Why have you wanted
to talk to me, if not to help?

To warn you, and for you to warn Him
that he's in danger.

Well, message received.

But for whatever reason,
He's clearly not running from that danger.

So now I'm asking you
to help eliminate it.

Your wisdom and strength
led you to pursue Jesus in Capernaum

when your colleagues
wouldn't have ever considered it.

I don't know what happened after that.
That's between you and Him. But...

I know you know the truth.

And I'm asking you to do anything you can.

- Mary, please, try to--
- Please! [crie♪]

[♪omber music playing]

Please.

[♪igh♪]

Nicodemus, there is something else
I wanted to say to you.

Thank you.

For what?

For trying.

That day the Romans brought you
to my place in the Red Quarter.

It must have been very uncomfortable
for you.

It's scary for anyone.

I'm so grateful you at least
made the attempt.

I should have told you that
the day we spoke in the market.

And I know coming to the Red Quarter

didn't initially turn out
the way you had hoped.

But...

Look... [breathes shakily] ...what it led to.

[crie♪] You're welcome.

But I had nothing to do
with who you are today.

Your change is just as convincing
as the prophecies of who He is.

I don't know what else I can do,
but I will search Torah.

Perhaps the scriptures will reveal to us
what is in store for Him.

[grunt♪]

[Zohara] Nicodemus?

Zohara.

- I'm sorry, I didn't mean to disturb you.
- Nico.

You don't have to speak loudly
for me to be stirred by your spirit,

like I have been for months.

I've been studying in earnest.
There are things about my position that--

- Come in here.
- Zohara, you don't understand--

Come.

[♪igh♪]

I have been with you for 60 years.

Don't try to educate me on your position,

as though I'm the teenager I was
when we married.

You can prepare for your lectures
in your sleep.

You don't need this level of research.

You haven't finished a meal in weeks
without abandoning the table,

and me, for these scrolls.

You're losing weight.

You can barely hold yourself up
since Matthias burst in

a week ago, whispering frantically.

I am not deaf and blind, Nico.

We have to talk.

We will. I...

I just can't yet.

I'm sorry.

[Caiapha♪] Please, sit down.

Can we, uh, serve you something to--

We are not the same.

I don't know what Shmuel has told you,

but you should know now
that you and I are not the same.

That's certainly the case.

I'm the anointed High Priest of Israel
who represents the nation before God,

the only human on earth allowed
to enter the Holy of Holies, and...

you, on the other hand, are...

Helping to save your people.

I assure you, I've not been brought here
under false pretenses.

I can deliver Him to you.

But you must know something.

I do believe that Jesus
is most likely the Messiah.

Why?

[Juda♪] Why what?

[chuckle♪]

Why do you believe that?

I've seen too much.

Then why are you doing this?

I suppose I have not seen enough.

Ah. Hence the "most likely."

Hopefully we'll get to see it this week.

If, when you take Him into custody,
he effortlessly destroys His captors,

leads us to victory over Rome,

and takes His rightful place
on the throne of David.

Then I'll be celebrating
with the rest of our people.

You are...

utterly out of your depth.

I disagree.

Malchus, Shmuel,
will you give us the room?

[chuckle♪] I do not appreciate
being spoken to

in such a manner, young man.

Well, if you change your mind about
needing his whereabouts, just let me know.

Sit down!

We are not finished.

This isn't complicated, Your Honor.

You need information,

and I'm the only one capable
and willing to give it to you.

All we have to agree on is a price.

[coins jingling]

Twenty pieces of silver.

[laugh♪]

Don't insult me.

Forty.

- Twenty-five.
- Thirty-eight.

[coins jingling]

Thirty pieces of silver.

Final offer.

[coins jingling]

The equivalent of four months' wages.

That is the price of a sl*ve.

And I will not live like one
while I'm looking for a new job.

Thirty-five.

Thirty pieces of silver is my final offer.

And a sl*ve is about
what Jesus is worth to me now.

You have no leverage, Judas.

I'm your only buyer.

And I'm your only seller.

The temple guard have sophisticated
methods of extracting information...

[tense music playing]

...if you'd like.

Or you can just take the money.

- I have one condition.
- I'm listening.

I will provide an opportunity
for you to arrest Him

only in the absence of a crowd.

He is more powerful than you,
and you know it.

The people will riot.

If we do this stealthily,
we can avoid an uprising,

retribution from Rome,

and a ruined Passover holiday.

I thought you said, if He's arrested,

He'll use his divine powers
to strike down His adversaries.

Could be the best Passover of all,
wouldn't it?

If He is who He says He is.

If He's not...

Thirty pieces of silver
will be of no use to me

when Pilate brutalizes us

for disturbing the peace
and inciting a revolt.

I have a condition as well.

You have 24 hours
to deliver Him over to us.

Time is of the essence.

Deal.

Twenty-four hours.

You're an only son.

I'm sorry?

You're an only son of an only son,
and he's passed away.

I was given all your information, Judas.

You're the last of the Iscariots.

Yes.

Unless you survive all this,
and have a son,

this could be your best chance
for your family name to be remembered.

Don't look so downtrodden.
This is an opportunity.

Now go.

Deliver on your promise.

[Kafni] You have no right to hold me here
without explanation.

What crimes have I committed?

I have the right
to speak to my legal representative.

My friend, those rights are granted
to citizens of the Roman Empire,

of which you, decidedly, are not.

Who are you?

The one asking the questions.

[groan♪]

You arrived from the north three days ago,

bringing with you

a small militia of malcontents.

You have since grown in numbers,

amassed weapons,

sharpened resentments,

and convened
a veritable serpent's den of aggressors,

who remind me of zealots,
but lack sophistication and training.

The zealots, you know, they're a pain.

But they have a precision
and a clarity of purpose

that makes them in some ways predictable.

They at least know what they're doing,
and therefore, so do we.

But you are not precise.

You are reckless, and messy,
and disorganized.

It was all too easy to find you out,
to get in here, and put you in that chair.

So it's my understanding,
the Jews have made pilgrimage to this city

to observe a solemn holiday
of remembrance?

Hmm? I might be getting that wrong.

But from what I can tell,

there's only one person acting up
around here this week.

Someone about whom so many people
have such intense feelings and opinions.

Both good and bad.

He's the only figure at the moment...

toward whom a man like you
could stir up so much animosity.

Tell me something, Kafni.

Why you?

Everybody's got an opinion about Jesus.

So, what about yours led to all this?

You're not a holy man.

Bacchus be praised.

You own land in wine country.

He k*lled my daughter.

If Jesus the Nazarene
had committed m*rder,

believe me, I'd know about it.

[♪coff♪] How?

You're not God.

Let's leave God out of this.

Honestly, I find the topic exhausting.

What more do you want to know?

[exhales sharply, hum♪]

All right, I'll bite, fine.
How'd he k*ll your daughter?

He seduced her.

He really doesn't strike me
as the romantic type.

Not romantically. Spiritually.

For the gods' sake,
what did I just say about God?

He performed a magic trick at a wedding

that made her so grateful,
and awed, and entranced

that she became more loyal to Him than me.

Hades and Styx.
That's the pettiest thing I've ever heard.

She left a promising career
as a wine vintner

to join his pathetic roving band.

Wayfaring around the Upper Galilee,

whipping crowds into frenzies
over his teachings and sorceries.

It...

Until...

Until one of those crowds
devolved into a stampede.

- And she was run through with a sword.
- By whom?

The Roman Praetor of Capernaum.

Uh-huh.

So a Roman praetor k*lled your daughter,
not Jesus. You are dissembling, Kafni.

She would never have been near Capernaum,

or anything resembling that situation,
if not for Him.

- And He has not been held accountable.
- She had free will, didn't she?

No one was forcing her to travel
around with this Jesus, were they?

One of Jesus' other followers,
a former employee of mine,

beguiled her with his youthful charm,

and lured her into the notion of marriage
without my consent.

Thought it didn't work that way
with you people.

There are loopholes.

The law is complicated.

Did your daughter ever say anything to you
about avenging her death

- if something would happen?
- It's what any father would do.

Why haven't you attempted vengeance
against the Roman praetor?

He was fired and sent away.

Hanged, for all I know.

Why are you looking at me like that?

Well, I don't know,
seems like you're under the impression

that you could have done
something more to prevent this.

To protect your daughter. To save her.

And instead of facing your guilt
like a man, or dealing with your grief,

you've decided to look
for someone to blame.

You don't know me.
You don't know what's in my heart.

You can't get directly to the praetor
who did the deed,

so now you've moved on to...

frankly, an easy target.

Oh.

He's not an easy target.

Let's find out.

- What?
- I don't have any children.

But the way you've decided to make
your daughter's untimely death

all about yourself

repulses me.

However...

your murderous commitment
to alleviating your guilty conscience

may prove useful to my purposes.

What purposes?

I have a proposal for you, Kafni.

Instead of arresting you
for unlawful assembly,

possession of illegal weapons,
incitement to violence,

conspiracy to commit m*rder,
and possibly insurrection,

to name only a few,

I will supply you with information
regarding Jesus' whereabouts...

- What has he done to you?
- Pay attention, please.

The only thing that's required
to keep you out of jail, or worse,

is that you continue to spread your venom
to anyone who'll listen.

Let me explain this to you
in a way you might understand.

Keep doing what you're doing.

Try to turn the tide
of public opinion against Jesus,

and quid pro quo...

Right. In exchange...

I'll keep holes out of your hands
and feet.

Holes?

[chuckling]

We're finished here.

- So, what now?
- Now...

- We wait.
- For what?

For the light of day.

[ominous music playing]

[pensive music playing]

[breathing heavily]

[tense music playing]

[breathing shakily]

[breathing heavily]

"The people who walked in darkness...

have seen a great light.

Those who dwelt
in the land of the shadow of death...

upon them a light has shined."

Thank you for that.

[inhales, exhales heavily]

- Go. Here, underneath.
- [Malchus clapping]

Passover begins in eight hours.

One last thorough search.

There cannot be even a single speck
of leaven anywhere in the house.

Tova, I want you to boil water
and fire up the ovens

to heat the surfaces of the kitchen
and k*ll any remaining hametz.

- Yes, Malchus.
- Sam, Shechem, Malah.

I want you to look for crumbs
under every cushion.

Search every pocket of every robe
in the closet.

Pour boiling water over every platter,
cup, utensil, dish, or knife

that has even come close
to a piece of bread in the last year.

Governor. Uh-- Can I help you, sir?

What do you intend to do
with Jesus of Nazareth?

A chag semeach to you too, Pontius.

- I don't observe this holiday.
- [chuckle♪] No kidding.

I am maintaining my side
of this arrangement, Caiaphas.

I've made plans
to make an example of a zealot.

Now tell me what you're doing
to maintain yours.

A zealot? How wonderful.

That should be well received
on both sides,

because both your people
and our people hate zealots.

They... They bring down your wrath
on the common people.

They make things worse for everyone.

Don't change the subject.

Your people hate zealots,
and they don't hate Jesus.

I won't argue with that.

But this city has a messianic fever,
and I need to bring the temperature down.

Well, we agree there.

In the broadest sense, we always have.

I, too, want a lower temperature.

Ah. Well, there are some families
of massacred Jews

who might take issue with that.

And neither of us wants a repeat.

I want peace, just like you.

I just don't like what I'm hearing
about your methods.

What have you heard?

- Don't insult me.
- So you've been spying on us?

You're not Roman citizens.
You have no right to privacy.

Exactly.

You're not one of us.
You don't believe in our God.

Therefore, you cannot begin to know
what's best for us.

There are layers to this
you do not comprehend.

Thousands of years of theology,
tradition, and law.

Well, if you know
what's best for the Jewish people,

then why does Jerusalem have a fever?

You asked me what I plan to do
to maintain my side of our arrangement,

and yet... [♪coff♪] ...you already know.

Why the intrusion?

You just wanted to hear me
say it out loud?

- [chuckle♪]
- Wipe that smug look off your face.

You've grown too comfortable
with our arrangement.

So much so that you think
you deserve the special treatment

the empire has come to give you
over the years.

We're God's Chosen People.
Why should we expect anything less?

It's galling and confounding
to everyone I know in Rome.

Even our stoic philosopher Seneca
has wondered aloud, to my humiliation,

how in Jerusalem, the vanquished
have given laws to the victors.

Well, not anymore!

Let me say to you,
plain and simple, Caiaphas,

if you go through with this,

and tensions rise as a result,

our alliance is over.

Shut up.

[door open♪]

[door close♪]

[Kafni] This is oppression.

We are devout men, yes,
but we work hard, and we pay our tribute.

This is an outrage!

Sorry about the mix-up.
Ta'ot shli, it was our mistake.

Shalom, shalom.

- Move out.
- [♪oldiers chant]

[intriguing music playing]

Swords.

- Go in. Hup.
- Yes, sir.

[♪igh♪]

For the Lord God is a sun and shield.

The Lord bestows favor and honor.

No good thing does He withhold
from those who walk uprightly.

Adonai has blessed and anointed our cause.

[mumbling]

And as David wrote when he feigned madness

to evade the King of Gath,

"When the righteous cry for help,
the Lord hears and delivers them

out of all of their troubles."

- It's a sign.
- From the Prophet Jeremiah.

Great are Your purposes,
and mighty are Your deeds.

Your eyes are open
to all the ways of the children of man,

rewarding each one according to his ways,

and according to the fruit of his deeds.

Job, at his lowest, cried out to Adonai,

[all] "I know that you can do all things,

and that no purpose of yours
shall be thwarted."

[chuckling]

You make a deal with the enemies
of our people and our God,

and call it divine purpose?

[chuckle♪]

If you'll excuse me, brothers.

For just a moment.

[indistinct chatter]

- What are you doing?
- I am leaving, Kafni.

- Why?
- Because it is the right thing to do.

Leaving Jerusalem hours before Passover?

Using the Holy Scriptures to delude
and justify yourself? It's pathetic.

- You will not speak to me in that tone.
- Or what?

Nothing more can hurt me.

My daughter is dead.

My husband is a shadow.

And we are in league with Rome?

It was a Roman blade,
yes, but she was only there...

To follow her rabbi.

He bewitched her!

Love is not a spell, Kafni.

Her love for her rabbi
and for her future husband were real.

- Thomas was never worthy.
- [♪coff♪]

That is rich coming from you
at this moment.

You're not leaving.

I can't have Jesus taking
both my daughter and my wife from me.

If you think that this
may soften my resolve, you are mistaken.

I love you, Kafni.

And I serve God and His laws.

Which is why I pray
that He will forgive me

that I cannot stand by and watch

what hate and guilt have turned you into.

[pensive music playing]

[Atticu♪] Hello, Simon.

We're not doing
another chase-and-evade, good?

Let's talk now, man-to-man?

- You know what this building is?
- A prison.

- Mm-hmm.
- What was that back there?

I know Kafni.

It wasn't your mistake detaining him,
so tell me what's going on.

I'm well aware of what it cost you

to leave your old order
and to follow Jesus.

That level of dedication
could have gotten you k*lled.

- It may yet.
- I hear no lies.

Jesus is in real danger.

[door close♪]

I don't have to tell you that.

No jail could hold the Messiah.

No prison bars or shackles
could contain Him.

[laughing]

Oh, you think I came here
as some sort of a stunt?

Have a chat with you
about the seriousness of your situation?

Come on, Zee.

That'd be a waste of my time.
I came to question a zealot.

Yeah, a m*rder*r who is being transferred
into this prison right about...

Cronus be praised.

Right on time.

[tense music playing]

Simon the Sicarius...

is dead.

Barabbas.

Oh, you know him?

Old friend?

Well, your pal is scheduled
for execution, in about, uh...

ah, 28 hours, give or take.

A day and then some.

Barabbas came to find me
when I left the order.

And you both survived?
Somebody didn't do his job.

- We spoke.
- Not what they sent him to do.

He saw things.

Things that should have compelled him
to leave the order and believe.

- You think you could've saved him?
- I didn't say that.

He could have saved himself,
if only he'd opened his eyes and heart.

Well, he did not open his eyes.

Don't know about his heart, don't care,
'cause now he's got to pay up.

Consequences, Simon.
I think you're about to find that out.

I said, no jail could contain Him.

Touchy.

Fine.

So maybe your Messiah won't be jailed,
but what about your friends?

Hmm?

One of them has already died.

You know what?
I'm just gonna leave those there.

In case you think you need to be ready.

Luck happens...

when preparation meets opportunity.

Buona fortuna...

[ominous music playing]

Simon Zee.

[Nicodemu♪] Mmm.

"Today the spirit of the Lord is upon me.

He has anointed me
to proclaim good news to the poor."

"Today this scripture is fulfilled
in your hearing."

- "I and the Father are one."
- [knocking on door]

Ah. "He was despised and rejected of men,

a man of sorrow,

acquainted with grief."

[knocking on door]

Ha!

"Do not think I come
to abolish the law or the prophets.

I do not come to abolish them,
but to fulfill them."

- [knocking on door]
- Ah!

- Rabbi Nicodemus?
- Oh!

- Yussif.
- I'm sorry to disturb you.

These scriptures already disturb me.

With all respect, I bring news
that might make it worse.

What?

The facts are not fully confirmed,

but my confidants
are not given to exaggeration

or inference without solid evidence.

Don't withhold, young man. Say it.

Caiaphas is making plans to arrest Jesus.

Oh, impossible.

He doesn't have the authority.

And according to my reconnaissance,
no one is certain where to find Jesus.

There is talk of a collaborator.

A traitor?

From within the ranks
of his own followers.

Who among them
could be capable of such a thing?

I don't know what Matthias has told you,

but not all of the followers
are in agreement

on how they view Jesus.

I have witnessed dissent between them
at the house of Lazarus.

Even if one of them betrayed
His whereabouts at this very moment,

the Sanhedrin still have to convene
for a trial.

And it is illegal for a capital offense
to be tried

on the day of preparation
for the High Holy Day.

Passover is in less than seven hours.

- [♪coff♪] Caiaphas's hands are tied.
- I assure you, they're not.

Or rather they are, to his father-in-law.

Annas.

He's been deposed before.
We can depose him again.

If he's the one behind all of this,
which I suppose he is.

- "We"?
- It's a naked violation

of the law and tradition.

- Most of the judges don't even like Annas.
- You said "we."

Mmm.

Will you join me and Shimon
and the centrists

in denouncing
Caiaphas's brazen infractions?

Where would I even do that?

Most of the administrative meeting spaces
in the temple are closed for Passover.

Nicodemus, you know Caiaphas
has no scruples.

My informers say they will call
an emergency meeting overnight, tonight,

citing an obscure loophole authorization
from the Sefer HaMakabim

during times of national crisis.

But Jesus is not a national crisis.

Well, He is, insofar as they
rightly perceive Him to be a threat

to this current corrupt Israeli hierarchy,
which he's poised to dismantle.

They're not all corrupt,
but they are all scared.

- Of course they are.
- If I may be so bold,

you are too harsh
on your brethren, Rabban.

- They are mostly good men...
- [♪coff♪]

...dedicated to their faith,

devoted to preserving
our traditions and Torah.

They just weren't ready for Jesus.

I don't think anyone was,
present company included.

- Me or you?
- Both.

[chuckle♪]

A sunset-to-sunset
has not passed, and somehow,

I have twice been accused
of misunderstanding Jesus of Nazareth.

So you do?

- Do what?
- Understand Jesus.

I'm... [♪ighs, chuckle♪]

...getting there. [chuckle♪]

So, what's next? How can we solve this?

Both you and Mary
need to understand, the die is cast.

- My status is irrelevant.
- [tense music playing]

This requires a level of dexterity

that neither of you
have been forced to implement.

It's not something I can solve
with stern words in a back room somewhere.

If you or I disclose our allegiance,
now or ever,

we will be shut out
of all discussions altogether.

Mary, His follower?

I sent for her.

She was searching for me, but recklessly.

She could have quickened the disaster
that is so rapidly unfolding.

She was looking for help
anywhere she can find it.

I said, recklessly.

And you cared enough about that
to bring her in. Why?

If you're so resigned
to the fate of Jesus.

To save her and the others.

- From what?
- From what could happen next.

I can't stop the Sanhedrin's attempts,

but I can at least warn Jesus
and His followers.

Rabbi Nicodemus.

Please, hear me.

You are right.

Neither I nor Mary have the wisdom
or experience you have.

But we are willing to do anything.

You say we will be shut out
of all discussions if we reveal ourselves.

I will follow your lead on that.

But surely we can be part
of the discussion tonight.

I am studying the scriptures
and Jesus' statements

for clues as to what can happen next.

Or what He has in store.

It's a mystery. I have no idea
what might happen tonight.

Let's find out.


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
