05x03 - Woes

Where I'm going, you cannot follow me now.

But afterward, you will follow.

- After what?
- When?

Let not your hearts be troubled.

In My Father's house,
there are many rooms.

I'm going to go get your rooms ready.

And then I will come back
and take you there,

that we may live together.

You know the way where I am going.

Lord, we don't know where You're going.

How can we know the road to get there?

I am the way,

and the truth, and the life.

No one comes to the Father
except through Me.

Lord...

show us the Father.

It'll be enough for us.

Have I been with you so long,
and you still do not know Me, Philip?

Whoever has seen Me has seen the Father.

How can you say, "Show us the Father"?

Do you not believe that I am
in the Father, and the Father is in Me?

I have done so many works
before your very eyes.

And if you cannot believe Me that I am
in the Father, and the Father is in Me,

then believe on account
of the works themselves.

I'm not saying I don't believe.
I-I'm just trying to understand.

You are saying that You are leaving us,

and where You go,

we cannot come.

But exactly when?

In the meantime, how will we know
what to do without You?

I am not leaving you as orphans.

I am sending you a Helper
to be with you forever.

The Holy Spirit.

You know Him, for He dwells in you,
and will be with you.

He? Another person?

We only want You.

We... We love You.

Whoever has My commandments
and keeps them,

that's who loves Me.

I'm saying these things
while I am still with you.

But the Helper, the Holy Spirit,

whom the Father will send in My name,

He will teach you all things,

and bring to your memory,
and, yes, understanding,

all that I have said to you.

[♪igh♪]

I know this is all unsettling.

Almost everything You have said
this week has been.

I know.

But...

[chuckle♪]

peace, I leave with you.

My peace, I give to you.

Let not your hearts be troubled.

Neither let them be afraid.

You heard Me say to you,
"I am going away, and I will come to you."

If you love Me...

[chuckle♪]

you'll rejoice.

Because I am going to the Father.

For the Father is greater than I.

And now I have told you
before it takes place,

so that when it does take place,

you may believe.

I have said this before. Why...

Belief is not my problem.

I just want to know,
why can I not follow You now?

I will lay down my life for You.

Will you lay down your life for Me?

['Walk On The Water" playing]

♪ Oh, yeah ♪

♪ Oh, child, come on in ♪

♪ Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with the mess you been

Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[vocalizing]

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[tense music playing]

[crowd whispering]

Go, go.

Stay your advance, soldiers.

Let Him make a statement.

Well, what do You have to say
for Yourself?

Is it not written that,

"My house shall be called
a house of prayer for all nations"?

But you make it a "den of thieves."

[crowd clamoring]

"Zeal for Your house shall consume Me."

This man is volatile. Guards!

Repair the high priest
to a secure location.

No more purchased animals or sacrifices
are to be brought through this gate.

[♪igh♪]

Do you hear me?

- But it's Passover.
- I said no more!

[crowd murmuring]

You. What right do You have
to halt the sale of offerings?

By whose authority do You do this?

- My own.
- [crowd clamoring]

- Heresy!
- He has no authority here!

[Yanni] You want us to believe You?

Legitimize Your claim
by showing us a sign.

You want a sign?

Destroy this temple,

and in three days, I will raise it up.

It has taken 46 years
to build this temple.

And will You raise it up in three days?

- You heard me.
- Is that a threat?

You have already defiled this temple

by the greed and dishonesty
which you have allowed,

burdening our people,
and destroying their worship.

I don't even recognize this place.

And this is My Father's house.

Hosanna to the Son of David!

[crowd chanting]
Hosanna to the Son of David!

Hosanna to the Son of David!

Come here. Come.

Let's go. Come on.

[clamoring, chanting continue♪]

- Hosanna to the Son of David...
- [groan♪]

- Gedera.
- Come on.

- Let's go.
- Gedera.

A scribe! We need a scribe immediately

to record everything
that just happened in exact detail.

Why? Because you think people
are going to forget all that? Ever?

- He threatened to destroy the temple.
- No.

His exact words were,
"Destroy this temple,

and in three days, I will rebuild it."

Maybe we do need a scribe.

It hasn't been five minutes and Shmuel's
already rewriting the narrative.

If not a threat, then perhaps a prediction
that the temple may soon be destroyed.

It sounded like He was addressing us
in the imperative.

Uh, destroy the temple, as in,

if we destroy it,
He'll rebuild in three days.

It doesn't matter who may do it.

The last person who prophesied

the destruction
of the temple was Jeremiah.

And as punishment,
they lowered him with ropes

into a deep cistern,
where he sank in the mud.

Who came out looking
like the villains in that story?

Jeremiah was right.
Solomon's temple was destroyed.

Yeah, and it took us half a century
to get this new one built.

He also repeated the blasphemy,
calling the temple His Father's house.

He makes himself equal with God
by identifying as His Son.

How's that not enough?

If I still had the strength of my youth,
I'd have marched down those stairs,

dragged Him through these doors
and stoned Him myself.

Well, thank God you do not.

We already have a preponderance
of damning evidence.

Preponderance of...

Are you so blind to the larger issue?

Thousands of citizens are on His side.

Hmm? Hailing Him whenever
He defies the establishment.

We answer to God alone,

not the whims
of a susceptible proletariat,

sick with messianic fervor.

That's not the same as answering to them.

The people are hungry for change.
They've found hope in Him.

Hope they're not finding anywhere else.

- If nothing else, we should take heed.
- Be careful with your words, Yussif.

Someone might take them as an implication
that hope is not to be found here.

What if we just
ask Him questions directly, hmm?

He's here for the festival
and not going anywhere.

We might as well.

I questioned Him directly in Bethany,
at the house of Lazarus.

It did not end well.

His teachings contradicted His actions.

And He made vague statements

about doing away
with the law and prophets.

Not "done away with."

"Fulfilled in Him."

What does that mean to you, Yussif?

As Shimon just said, hmm, why not ask Him?

One thing I will say
for this Jesus the Nazarene,

He does not dissemble.

His words are inflammatory,
often challenging, even blasphemous.

But He will not lie.

What is your point?

Shimon is right.
We should just ask Him questions.

With the right questions,
His honesty could be His undoing,

if the right audience is there to hear it.

So the next time we see Him,
we should all be prepared.

Questions that come from what intention?

To earnestly understand Him, or to entrap?

It's not our fault if He answers earnestly
and it reveals Him to be a fraud.

We have the truth on our side.

- So it's entrapment?
- He is not the Messiah, Yussif!

[tense music playing]

He wants our people,
the ones we're assigned to protect,

to believe He is, and we must expose Him.

If that's entrapment,
praise be to God if it works.

All right, enough, both of you.

Settle this Capernaum rivalry in private.

- He's not even from Capernaum.
- [Dunash] I said, enough.

Everyone go back to your offices
and prepare questions.

Uh-uh, uh-uh. What about the market?

Shouldn't He be fined
and forced to pay for damages?

There is a committee
which oversees the market. Hmm?

Why don't you talk to their chairman,
and let them sort it out?

Dunash, Dunash.

How many lambs did you lose
when He upended the market?

Around 30. They're all scattered now.

- Will you be able to recover them?
- What's the point?

They had been without spot or blemish,
as the law requires for Passover.

Now they're running the streets,
getting cuts and scrapes,

and coming into contact
with unclean animals.

They're worthless.

Passover lambs aren't cheap.
One year old, right?

At a loss of 35 to 40.

Plus a year's worth of feeding,
and grooming, and keeping them spotless.

Plus travel, and the market booth fee.

After taxes, you're looking
at a whole talent of lost income.

More like a third. But it's a lot.

How will you feed your family this year?

Why are you pressing salt
into my open wound?

Don't you think the person responsible
for all this should be held accountable?

From what I know about this Jesus,
He doesn't have any money Himself.

Well, then. Maybe He should be
forced to pay another way.

[Juda♪] Master, I just...

I'm just trying to make sure
I heard You clearly.

You said no more sacrifices
are to be brought into the temple?

Yes, Judas.

Wait, then how are the people
supposed to observe Passover?

Rabbi, this is the place.

So it is.

- Where are You going?
- [Jesu♪] I need to be alone, Peter.

I have many more things
to say later on, and I need to pray.

But they'll be looking for You.

[♪omber music playing]

Maybe they'll find Me, Zee.

Maybe he who seeks shall find.

All right, everyone inside.
We need to talk.

- Zee?
- He shouldn't go by Himself.

He said He wanted to be alone.

I'll follow him At a distance.
He won't even know.

Really? He won't know?

He said the people looking
for Him might find Him.

- That was a joke, Zee.
- [Big Jame♪] It wasn't a joke.

He's been saying for days that
they will find Him.

And you should come inside, Zee.

We're going to need each other
more than ever.

[door open♪]

[pensive music playing]

Okay, who here has known Him the longest?

Do you have any idea what that was?

I've never seen Him do
anything like that. Ever.

Well, has anyone seen
any physical aggression of any kind?

I guess at the construction site.

I remember one time
He arm-wrestled a man at lunch.

But that was all in good fun.
He was laughing.

- Did He win?
- Nathanael.

We've all heard him shout before.

Harsh, aggressive rebukes at Akiva
and the other Pharisees in Capernaum,

on the day that-that Ramah...

No, but that was all verbal.
He didn't lift a finger.

You're serious?

He allowed violence to escalate
all around Him, on account of His words,

and took no action to stop it.

I think we should be
very clear about something.

He did not strike any person
or animal in the market.

Are you crazy?

He overturned tables
and inanimate objects.

He did not whip the animals.

He opened their pens,
cracked His whip, and drove them out.

Oh. I saw merchants and money changers
get knocked to the ground

by the stampeding animals,
and the tables flipping.

But did He physically as*ault anyone?

Does it matter, when the overall outcome
is that people did get hurt?

Who cares if a handful
of people got bruised?

The entire event was an as*ault

on our nation's religious system
of worship and sacrifice.

That's no observation.
He said as much, plainly.

It was an as*ault on the wrong version
of our system of worship and sacrifice.

I think we can all trust Him
to know the difference.

And if we're asked to make a statement?

How can we defend
both His behavior and words?

Are you saying you wouldn't defend Him?

[tense music playing]

This week,

there is a chance for the Messiah
to unite all of our people.

Everyone is listening to Him,
and He just made even more enemies.

I'm saying I want to defend Him,
Zee, but I don't know how.

Look, I agree with Matthew and Philip.

There is discernment in these actions...

[all clamoring]

[Zee] Judas, it's about...

- [Nathanael] This is dangerous.
- [John] Yes...

- [Nathanael] We're next.
- [John] That's what we signed up for.

[Thoma♪] He's right.
We have no allies or anything.

It's not just Him going on a tirade.

It was justice...

Mary.

Where are you going?

[♪igh♪] To get help.

- From who?
- Please don't ask me any questions.

Are you going to Bethany?

All right.

No one in Bethany can help us now.

Should we send someone to Bethany,
tell His mother what happened?

I think that's why He sent her away
so she wouldn't have to see.

[Andrew] Mary.

You know what you're doing?

[♪igh♪] No.

[♪igh♪]

Fair. Just...

Just tell me you won't get into trouble.

I cannot.

[Malchu♪] He is busy now. No, please.

[Atticu♪] It is clear to me
you take your job very seriously,

but we're all time's subjects,
are we not, Caiaphas?

I'm sure his appointment
is very important, and we're going in now.

Greetings, Governor.

[chuckle♪]

Is this a bad time?

So he accepted responsibility
for His actions?

Did He ever. He was proud of what He did.
As if He had every right.

It'll be handled, Governor.

There's no need for you
to get involved at this point.

[exhales sharply] Thank you, Caiaphas.
Now if I may get back to my massage...

The people are cheering in the streets.

[♪coff♪] Not the vendors in the temple.

Not everybody loves Him,

but He's a... He's a popular figure,
there's no question.

He may be able to act
with impunity in their eyes,

but not in ours, I assure you.

There is a plan in place
to question Him directly.

And until such time as
we have obtained written statements,

there is no point
in your troubling yourself.

That sounds like
a very fine and slow plan.

The opportunity to collect tax
from the money changers

is vanishing every second.

Your market is in shambles
and the holiday is in three days' time.

The market will be swiftly reassembled.

Maybe I need a massage. [chuckle♪]

When is "swiftly"?

[♪tammer♪]

Unless you know the answer to that,
you have a problem, Governor.

Emperor Tiberius ignored my request
to send extra officers and regiments

to accommodate the influx of pilgrims.

So maybe he needs to see
and feel the consequences

of understaffing Jerusalem
during pilgrimage holidays.

So you intend to teach the emperor
a lesson, then?

Caiaphas, you say it's being handled
within your administration, yes?

Yes, Governor, you may rest assured.

I will let you know
when we need your help.

I am neither rested nor assured,
but I'll take your word for now.

- [chuckles softly]
- We're finished here.

Steward, see the high priest out.

Uh-huh.

[tense music playing]

Oh, uh, Chag Pesach sameach.

Are you asleep at the helm of the ship?

I'm from the equestrian class.

[♪coffing] I don't do nautical metaphor.

All right. In the saddle, then?

Delusional?

Tiberius is not gonna look
at what happened and think,

"Hades and Styx,
I should've sent Pontius reinforcements."

Of course not. I'm on notice, Atticus.

But I can't punish a popular rabbi
and cause a riot.

I'll lose my job.
Caiaphas doesn't know that.

You grossly underestimate
the way information spreads in this town.

[♪igh♪]

It is naive of you to think

that the details of your relationship
with the emperor

haven't reached his ears.

Caiaphas knows exactly
why you've slowed down executions.

What did Julius Caesar say
when he crossed the Rubicon?

"The die has been cast."

Julius Caesar declared himself
dictator for life

and then was bludgeoned
to death in the Capitol.

His crossing the Rubicon River led
to a civil w*r

that put an end to the Roman Republic.

Well...

let's hope it doesn't come
to that, certainly.

[♪ighs, groan♪]
I'll speak to you later, Atticus.

[♪igh♪]

Governor.

Do you ever wonder what it would be like
to see some of the things He did if...

if you weren't His follower?

You've poorly stated the question.

But I wonder that all the time.

I think today I would have thought,

"Well, that man is having a terrible day.

I'm going to stay as far away
as I possibly can."

Well, thank you for that, Nathanael.

I seem to remember
people singing and chanting.

- [Nathanael] Really?
- [Andrew] Do you not remember that part?

[Nathanael] Debatable.

[Andrew] They were cheering,
you know. Enthusiastic.

Master.

Oh. Hello, Matthew.

I'm going to preach.
Would you like to come?

[♪tammer♪] Do the others know?

Um, no, no. Not yet.

Uh, let's talk for a bit.

Maybe you can decide
if I should invite them. [chuckling]

Why wouldn't we invite the others?

Uh, I was...
I was only being slightly facetious.

Oh. [chuckle♪]

I know how some of the things
we've already seen this week

could come as a shock.

[♪igh♪]

I can only speak for myself,
but I'm willing to be surprised.

- Hmm.
- I crave surprise in the sense that

surprise is something that is unexpected,
but it brings me closer to understanding.

Hmm.

Shock, on the other hand,
separates me from understanding.

And above all, you seek understanding.

Above all, I seek You.

Then you already understand.

Rabbi, you remember that time
that we worked on the sermon in Chorazin?

- Of course.
- I wanted to say thank you.

I know You did that to teach me.

[chuckle♪]

And you will teach others.

[pensive music playing]

I...

I-I know to seek You, but this last week,

I feel that lack
of understanding again. I...

- I need to work with You again, so...
- I know, Matthew.

But there is no more time for Me
to work with you one-on-one, in person.

It's time you start discerning My message,
so that you can teach others.

Come.

But Rabbi, there's still so much I don't—

You understand enough.

And you will understand more this week
if you listen and observe.

It won't be simple or easy.

But it will make sense soon enough.
Even to you.

[Philip] Rabbi.

Rabbi, are you going somewhere?

Oh. Well, uh, Matthew and I were
just discussing sermons,

and I'm on my way to deliver one
to a very special audience.

You know, I was thinking
of telling the story of the vineyard, so...

- [gasp♪]
- Seriously?

- Yes, we're ready. We can...
- We've been waiting for this.

- Um, I need my big bag.
- Andrew, We need the grapes. Don't forget.

- [Andrew] Did you see my cape?
- [Philip] Yes, it's in Thomas's bag.

[Andrew] Whoo-hoo!

[Jesu♪] For the Kingdom of Heaven
is like a man going on a journey,

who called his servants
and entrusted to them his property.

To one, he gave five talents.

To another, two.

To another, one.

To each according to his ability.

Then he went away.

He who had received the five talents
went at once, and traded with them,

and he made five talents more.

So also, he who had two talents
made two talents more.

But he who had received the one talent
went and dug in the ground,

and buried...

Ah. Shmuel.

So good to see you again.

I don't suppose you've come to sit
and listen to My teaching.

We have questions.

Questions which must be answered
in the hearing of these people.

So they know who they are listening to.

They already know.

- [♪cattered laugh♪]
- It's all right, Peter.

Please, go ahead.

You've said some bold things.

And yesterday, did some bold things.

And yes, you've performed
some impressive signs.

But if they're legitimate,
let me ask you this.

By what authority are you doing
these things?

And who gave you this authority?

That's an important question.

But before I answer,
I will ask you one question.

And if you tell Me the answer,

then I will tell you
by what authority I do these things.

If you want to talk
about authority and credentials,

let me ask you this.

The baptism of John.
From where did it come?

- From Heaven, or from man?
- Where it came from?

His work of his baptisms of thousands,
of what origin was it?

Human or divine?

Ah. I'm glad you're taking your time.

[crowd chuckling]

As the leaders of these people,

we expect you to be careful
in your teachings.

[whisper♪] It's a trap.

If we say John's authority came
from Heaven...

He'll ask, "Why didn't we believe him?"

But if you say from man,
the people will stone us to death.

Because they are convinced
that John was a prophet.

- We can't win.
- I am not getting stoned today.

Just say you don't know.
How could we know? We can be honest.

[groan♪]

We cannot, with complete confidence,

answer certainly as to the human
or divine origin of John's work.

So you cannot answer My question.

Then neither will I answer your question

and tell you by what authority
I do these things.

[crowd clamoring]

I have another story for you.
Listen carefully.

Go, go, go.

All right.

There was a master of a house
who planted a vineyard...

[crowd laughing]

and put a fence around it,

and dug a winepress in it,

and built a tower,
and leased it to tenants,

then went into another country.

Shalom, shalom.

[apostle♪] Shalom.

[crowd laughing]

When the season came
to harvest the grapes,

he sent a servant to collect the profits.

But the tenants took him and beat him.

[crowd gasping] Oh!

[Jesu♪] And sent him away empty-handed.

Again, he sent to them another servant.

And they struck him on the head
and treated him shamefully.

Still, yet another servant he sent.

And him, they stoned to death.

[crowd] Oh!

[grunting]

Ah, that looked painful.

[crowd laughing]

He is quite dead.

[crowd laughing]

Finally, the master sent his son
to them, saying...

Surely they will respect my son.

[Jesu♪] But when the tenants saw the son,

they said to themselves...

This is the heir.

Come, let us k*ll him,
so that this inheritance may be ours.

How would that work?

Well, since the owner is out
of the country,

if we eliminate the heir,

we can seize control
of the vineyard ourselves

and collect the profits.

[Jesu♪] And they took him,

and k*lled him,
and threw him out of the vineyard.

[crowd clamoring]

When, therefore,
the owner of the vineyard comes,

what will he do to those tenants?

I'm asking you, Shmuel, and your friends.

These people desire to hear from you.

And you, you are a truth teller.

[crowd muttering]

He would put them to death.

- [grunt♪]
- [crowd clamoring]

- [♪houting]
- [crowd laughing]

He'd then entrust the vineyard
to others, yes?

Yes, ones who will actually
deliver the profits.

What is your point?

I don't get it.

I'm afraid I do.

Have you never read in the Scriptures,

"The stone that the builders rejected
has become the cornerstone"?

Wait, is He talking about us?

Therefore, I tell you, the Kingdom of God
will be taken away from you

and given to a people
producing its fruits.

- It's a whole new world! [chuckle♪]
- [crowd cheering, laughing]

[applauding]

He should be arrested
by the temple guards for such slander,

but the crowds would never allow it.

Now is the time to do
what Caiaphas has been talking about.

We need to get Him to say things

either the people
or our occupiers won't like.

Yes, yes. Ask Him about the taxes.

Gedera, there are Roman soldiers
just outside.

Can you go and make sure
they are listening carefully,

that we might have a criminal here?

- Why?
- They can't come into this court.

But if He delivers the answer
to my question the people want to hear,

they'll arrest Him when He leaves.

And when He can't fight back,
He will be exposed.

Everyone, please, please.

I have an important
and respectful question to ask this rabbi.

And it pertains
to every single person here,

to your day-to-day lives.

Teacher, though we may disagree
on a few interpretations,

one thing no one can deny
is that You speak with integrity.

You don't mince words,

and I think it's abundantly clear
to everyone

that you are not influenced
by public opinion,

for you are not swayed by appearances.

You are the kind of impartial person
we can ask this question to,

and not expect a politician's obfuscation
or avoidant response.

Tell us, then, what You think.

Is it lawful to pay taxes
to Caesar, or not?

- [crowd muttering]
- [♪igh♪]

Ah.

You want to put Me to the test.

All right.

Show Me the coin for the tax to Rome.

A denarius, somebody, anybody.

Thank you.

Tell me.

Whose likeness and inscription is this?

The likeness is of Caesar,
and the inscription...

I don't like to utter pagan things, but...

It's all right. You're just
answering a question. Hmm?

[♪peaking Latin]

"Caesar Augustus Tiberius,
Son of the Divine."

[crowd jeering]

The answer to his question
is obvious, yes?

How can we justify paying taxes
to someone we find blasphemous?

Zee, who led the revolt over this issue
over 30 years ago?

Judas of Galilee.

Judas of Galilee,
the founder of the Zealots.

You all still appreciate his resistance.

We shouldn't be giving money
to this occupying power

who has no right to God's land.

That would be the obvious answer.

Caesar identifies as the son of a god.

However...

so what?

Just because it's written on a coin
doesn't make it true.

How can we be the chosen people
of the one true God,

and yet pay taxes to a pagan
who claims to be divine?

Paying your taxes doesn't mean
affirming his claim of divinity.

It means funding things,
like well-maintained roads,

and Rome's protection of this country
from foreign invasion.

In the end, this is God's world.

The Romans just live in it,
and inscribe empty phrases on coins.

The coin belongs to Caesar.

You belong to Him.

Therefore, render to Caesar
the things that are Caesar's,

and to God the things that are God's.

[crowd clamoring]

The Messiah, loyal to Rome!

No Messiah!

[crowd chanting] No Messiah! No Messiah!

- No Messiah!
- Hosanna!

- No Messiah! No Messiah! No Messiah!
- Hosanna!

No Messiah! No Messiah! No Messiah...

Hosanna!

Hosanna!

Hosanna!

Hosanna!

Enough!

Enough!

Finish the story about the talents.

The talents.

Ah, yes. Where was I?

At the man with the one talent,
digging in the ground.

Oh, yes.

So he who had received the one talent
went and dug in the ground...

At least some of the people
just turned on Him. That's a start.

That won't draw the ire of Rome.

I'm out of questions.

Shmuel, you know Him.

Surely you have something.

We know He's claimed to be
above the law multiple times,

but these people haven't heard it.

Let's hear Him talk about it,
and if they side with Him,

we've lost them already.

Excuse me, Rabbi.

[chuckle♪] You're not done?

We have one more question.

Will we never find out what happened
to the man who buried his talent?

[crowd laughing]

I don't think so.

Which is the greatest commandment
in the Law?

That's easy.

"You shall love the Lord your God
with all your heart,

with all your soul
and with all your mind."

This is the greatest
and first commandment.

And the second is like it.

"You shall love your neighbor
as yourself."

On these two commandments
depend all the Law and the prophets.

You would never know it,
the way they require so much of us.

- [crowd] Mmm.
- Who, them?

- [crowd] Yes, yes.
- [Jesu♪] All right, all right.

Listen, the Pharisees sit on Moses's seat.

So do and observe whatever they tell you.

But not the works they do.

[tense music playing]

For they preach, but do not practice.

We what?

They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear,
and lay them on people's shoulders.

But they themselves are not willing
to move them with their finger.

They do all their deeds
to be seen by others.

This is outrageous.

For they make their phylacteries broad
and their fringes long,

and they love the place
of honor at feasts,

and being called "Rabbi" by others.

We are rabbis!

Stop interrupting him!

I've said some of this in Capernaum.

But now I say this to you here
in Jerusalem,

in the courts of the temple itself.

Woe to you,
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites.

For you shut the Kingdom of Heaven
in people's faces,

and you yourselves don't go in,
but you don't let anyone else in either.

[crowd gasping]

Woe to you,
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites.

For you travel across sea and land
to make a single proselyte,

and when he becomes a proselyte,

you make him twice as much
a child of hell as yourselves.

Jesus!

Stop this at once!

[♪houting] Woe to you,
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites.

For you are like whitewashed tombs,

which outwardly appear beautiful,

but within are full of dead people's
bones and all uncleanness.

For you also outwardly
appear righteous to others,

but within, you are full
of hypocrisy and lawlessness.

You build the tombs of the prophets

and decorate the monuments
of the righteous, saying,

"If we had lived
in the days of our fathers,

we would not have taken part with them
in shedding the blood of the prophets."

But in your actions,
you now and will reveal

that you are sons of those
who m*rder*d the prophets.

- [crowd gasping]
- You serpents!

You brood of vipers!

How will you escape
being condemned to hell?

Every one of Your words will be recorded
and reported to the high priest!

By all means.

Follow in the footsteps of your ancestors.

He's inviting them to k*ll Him.

[dramatic music playing]

[breathing heavily]

Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem.

The city that kills the prophets,
and stones those who are sent to it.

We can't hear you!

How often would I have gathered
your children together,

as a hen gathers her brood
under her wings,

and you are not willing?

I think we need to get Him out of here.
Something's not right. Let's go.

See, your house is left desolate.

I tell you, you will not see Me again
until you say,

"Blessed is He who comes
in the name of the Lord."

- Hosanna!
- Hosanna!

[crowd chanting]
Hosanna! Hosanna! Hosanna...

No Messiah! No Messiah! No Messiah!

Hosanna!

[crowd clamoring]

Master, what is it?

I'm just taking it all in.

One last time.

It is something.

Such gorgeous buildings
made of beautiful stones.

These buildings you see?

Truly, I say to you,

there will not be left here
one stone upon another

that will not be thrown down.

[gasping]

- Stay back.
- Everybody, stay back.

- Go, go, go.
- Stay back.

Well, that was that.

No more public preaching or teaching.

Today, right? You-You mean
no more preaching for today?

Because the sun is going down.
We're-We're losing light.

I've said all I came to say to the crowds.

- Ho-Hold on. What do You—
- James.

He said what He said.

You mean this is the end?

Yes, Big James.

[♪omber music playing]

He said there will be no more preaching?

Today. For just... For today.

Uh, He didn't specify a time period.

He said something to you about the end?

Where is He going? This makes no sense.

Listen, everybody.

Go back to the house.
We're gonna talk to Him privately.

We'll update you when we get back.

- What, you expect us to leave?
- [♪hushe♪]

It's all right.
I'm sure everything will be fine.

I just don't want to overwhelm Him.

Peter's right.

It's been a big day
and He said some big things.

We're all tired.
We should go back to the house.

We'll be right behind you.

Let's go.

We'll walk around the outside
and through the Essene Gate

to avoid the crowds.

Who will all recognize us now.

[birds, insects chirping]

The Mount of Olives.

The prophet Zechariah foretold
that the Messiah would appear

on this very mountain
at the end of the age.

Teacher, please help us understand.

You said "desolate" before,
that the stones will be gone.

Is this for the new Kingdom?

Is the time now?

We're ready, but You need to give us
what sign to look for.

You haven't been telling us.

Sit.

You will know soon enough.

But in the meantime,

see that no one leads you astray.

For many will come in My name,
saying, "I am the Christ,"

and they will lead many astray.

And you will hear of wars

and rumors of wars.

[breathes shakily]

See that you are not alarmed,

for this must take place...

but the end is not yet.

For nation will rise against nation,

and kingdom against kingdom...

and there will be famines
and earthquakes in various places.

All these are but the beginning
of the birth pains.

And then they will deliver you
up to tribulation.

And put you to death.

And you will be hated
by all nations for My name's sake.

And then many will fall away

and betray one another
and hate one another.

And many false prophets will arise
and lead many astray.

And because lawlessness will be increased...

the love of many will grow cold.

But...

the one who endures
to the end will be saved.

Then this gospel of the Kingdom

will be proclaimed
throughout the whole world

as a testimony to all nations.

And then...

the end will come.

But to answer your question,

concerning that day or that hour...

no one knows.

Not even the angels in Heaven,

nor the Son...

but only the Father.

Be on guard.

Keep awake.

For you do not know
when the end will come.

Well, that's a lot.

It is.

You're telling us that...

Everything You just told us,
which included our deaths,

and the end of the age,

and not even You know when?

Only the Father.

Are You really never going back
to the temple?

[pensive music playing]

[♪igh♪]

If you'll all leave Me...

I'd like to be alone as I take it in.

I'll come back to the house after dark.

I just need a moment.

This is part of
a longer conversation, right?

There's more clarity coming?

Let's give Him some time, Andrew.

[whisper♪] I love You.

I love you too, John.

[music continue♪]

[breathes shakily]

[breathes shakily] Oh, Jerusalem.

[♪obbing]

Would that you, even you,

had known this day the things
that make for peace.

But now they are hidden from your eyes.

[♪obbing]

If only you had known the things
that make for peace.

The things that make for peace.

[crying softly]

[voice] ♪ But I ♪

♪ Through the abundance
Of Your steadfast love ♪

♪ Will enter Your house ♪

[lambs bleating]

♪ I will bow down ♪

♪ Toward Your holy temple ♪

♪ In the fear of You ♪

♪ Lead me, O Lord
In Your righteousness ♪

♪ Because of my enemy ♪

♪ Make Your way straight before me ♪

- ♪ For there ♪
- [♪trumming lyre]

♪ Is no truth inside their mouths ♪

♪ Their inmost self is destruction ♪

♪ Their throats ♪

♪ Are open graves ♪

♪ Where they flatter with their tongues ♪

♪ Make them bear their guilt ♪

♪ O God ♪

♪ Let every one fall ♪

[♪niffle♪]

♪ By their own counsel ♪

♪ Let all who take refuge
In You rejoice... ♪

[♪oftly] David.

♪ Let them ever sing for joy ♪

♪ Spread Your protection over them ♪

♪ For those who love Your name
Exalt in You ♪

[♪niffle♪]

[bleating]

[groan♪]

[crying softly]

[♪omber music playing]

[breathing shakily]

[theme music playing]


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
