05x01 - Entry

Listen carefully,

because I'm going to tell you
what is about to happen.

In a little while, you will not see me.

And then after a little while,
you will see me.

Truly,

truly, I say to you,
you will weep and lament,

but the world will rejoice.

You will be sorrowful,

but your sorrow will turn into joy.

When a woman is giving birth,
she has sorrow because her hour has come.

But when she has delivered the baby...

she no longer remembers the anguish.

It's replaced by joy that a human being
has been brought into the world.

So yes.

You have sorrow now.

But I will see you again.

And your hearts will rejoice,

and no one will take your joy from you.

In that day,
you will ask nothing more of me.

Truly, truly, whatever you ask
of the Father in my name,

he will give it to you.

Until now you have asked nothing
in my name.

Ask and you will receive,

that your joy may be full.

I have said so many things to you
in figures of speech.

And you have seen so many things
that you haven't fully understood.

Some because you cannot fully grasp
all of this until my time is complete.

But you have remained faithful.

sniffles

And the hour is coming

when I will no longer speak to you
in figures of speech,

but will tell you plainly
about the Father.

In that day, you will ask in my name.

And no longer will you need me
to ask the Father on your behalf.

For the Father himself loves you.

And you can ask him directly,

because you have loved me,
and have believed that I came from God.

I came from the Father
and have come into the world.

And now...

I am leaving the world
and going to the Father.

Thank you.

For what?

You said it plainly,
no longer using figures of speech.

I feel less anxious now.

Now we know that you know all things,
and do not need anyone to question you.

This is why we truly believe
you came from God.

Do you now believe?

Always.
Always, yes.

Hold on to that belief.

Because I tell you, the hour is coming.

Indeed, it has come.

When you will be scattered,
each to his own home,

and will leave me alone.

No, Rabbi.

We would never do that.
You never have to worry about that.

This is not the time
for your declarations of loyalty.

I have heard them.

And I do not doubt
your earnest intentions.

Time will reveal all things.

Andrew, let's close with a hymn.

But before we do...

be assured, all of you.

I am not alone, for the Father is with me.

I have said these things to you,
that in me you may have peace.

For in this world...

you will have tribulation.

But take heart.

I have overcome the world.

O Lord

Open the gates to me

Of righteousness I would enter

Through them that I will give thanks

All to you, my Lord

This is the gate of the Lord...

Father, the hour has come.

Glorify your son,
that the son may glorify you.

Since you have given Him authority
over all flesh,

to give eternal life
to all whom you have given Him.

And this is eternal life,

that they know you, the only true God,

and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.

I glorified you on Earth,

having accomplished the work
that you gave me to do.

This is what the Lord has done

Marvelous before our eyes

"Walk on the Water" playing

Oh, yeah

Oh, child, come on in

Jump in the water

Got no trouble with the mess you been

Walk on the water

Walk on the water

Walk on the water

Oh, child

Walk on the water

Got no trouble

Walk on the water

vocalizing

Walk on the water

chattering, shouting

pensive music playing

It's everything I feared.

chattering

Hosanna in the highest

Hosanna...

Do you hear that? Sounds like multitudes.

This is the moment.

The Son of David.

The Messiah.

Hosanna

Hosanna...

Hosanna?

It means "save us."

Hosanna to the Son of David

Hosanna to the Son of David

Stop. Stop.
 What's going on?

Whoa, whoa, whoa.

Stay away from us.
 We mean no harm.

You tried to k*ll us.
 No one wants a riot.

John, Zee, I want to hear them out.

If you turn back now,
it could save your life.

Wait, we're not going to do that.

Do you hear that chanting?

The people sound
like they're ready to crown Him king.

And for declaring yourself a sovereign,
Rome will descend on us all.

I have said nothing
about an earthly crown, ever.

You're riding a donkey.

For those of us who know prophecy,
your meaning could not be any more clear.

Hmm.
 What does he mean?

Zechariah's prophecy of the Messiah.

"Behold, your King is coming to you,

righteous and with salvation,
riding on a donkey."

The people haven't even seen
the donkey yet.

And once they do, everything
they hope for will be confirmed.

It already is. Can't you see?

You should be rejoicing.

This is the moment
that we will all be saved.

Hosanna to the Son of David!

Hosanna to the Son of David!
Hosanna, Hosanna!

Hosanna to the Son of David! Hosanna!

I don't stand with these men,
but they are right.

Raising Lazarus changed everything.

Jesus will not be safe
inside the city gates.

You are calling for his k*lling.
Don't you see?

Teacher, if you value your own life,
tell your students to stop.

I could tell them to stop.

But I tell you, if they were to be silent,

even these very stones around us
would cry out in their place.

Hosanna!
 Yes!

Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna!

Hosanna! Hosanna!

cheering, chanting continues

Come on, man. It's good news for you too.

What do we do now?

We can't walk in behind them.
We'll look like followers.

We'll take one of the other gates.

Come on.
 All right.

Hosanna!

Hosanna to the Son of David!

Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna...

Hosanna to the King!

Yussif.

cheering, chanting continues

all singing, chanting

Hosanna!

To the Son of David!

Hosanna!

Hosanna!

upbeat music playing

Hosanna to the King of kings!

Yes!

To the Son of David!

Hosanna!

Hosanna!

Hosanna!

Hosanna

muffled cheering

Rabbi, are you all right?

singing, cheering resumes

Hosanna to the Son of David

Hosanna, Hosanna

Hosanna in the highest

...to the Son of David.
 Hosanna to the Son of David

Hosanna to the Son of David.

Hosanna to the Son of David

Hosanna

Hosanna in the highest

Hosanna

Hosanna to the Son of David

Hosanna

Hosanna in the highest...

speaking indistinctly

Hosanna to the Son of David.

Hosanna to the Son of David...

chanting continues

Whoa, whoa, whoa.

Hey.

Remember what He said,
the first day we met Him?

Well, I met Him before you, but...

chuckles

He said, we'd be fishers of men.

We used to fish to feed.
Now we're gonna feed them spiritually.

I think I'm gonna learn how to preach.
 Now?

What better time? All these people?
 Exactly why it's risky.

What are we looking at?
 All these strangers.

Well, not all strangers.

Friends. Family, even.

No doubt we'll encounter
just as many who want to send us home.

Thomas, can't you just take a moment
to appreciate all this?

Hey, give him a break, man. He's not well.

My mind is clear.

Remember Shmuel? The house of Lazarus?

He said some are waiting here
with open arms, others with daggers.

Zeb.

Hmm?

Take Salome, Eden, and Lazarus's sisters
to the court of women

until everything calms down.

I'll meet you there later.
 Understood.

Oh! Oops, sorry, sorry, sorry.

Watch where you're waving that thing.

Shalom, shalom, my friend.
 Shalom, shalom.

Shalom, John.
 Shalom.

Barnaby chuckling

Andrew.

You two go ahead. I'll catch up.
Side stairs. This way.

Shalom.

Yes, one of those.

Take this.
 Yes.

Thank you.
 Welcome.

All that fuss, and he rides in on an a*s.

It's pathetic.

I'll admit, the fervor of the crowds
had me nervous for a minute.

Really? A whole minute?

Oh, come now.
Did you see his grubby little followers?

Not a soldier in the lot.

That's what Antiochus said
about the Maccabees.

Where are your manners?

You hate shrimp.

Hate is too strong. I disfavor them.

I enjoy that they're forbidden.

Ah. Happy Caiaphas Day.

He needs me.
 You need him, and his temple.

What do you get, a quarter
of your annual revenue from this week?

Maybe.

Sometimes more.
 He keeps the peace,

and the exchange rate's high,
so play nicely.

Pontius, you know I hate the smell of...

What? Me?

I bathed.

sniffing

A week ago?

Shellfish. You offend these people

by bringing that kind of meat
into the city.

There is braised pork, my love.
From the shoulder cut.

I'm not hungry.

Shut up. She's fine.

No, she seems great.

Governor.

Oh, the High Priest has arrived?

Send him in.

Care to stay for the show?

No. I'll pass.
I've seen enough pageantry for one day.

I'll be back. Later.

Joseph Ben Caiaphas.
Do you mind if I call you Joe?

You ask that every time.

Help yourself.

Fresh from the Mediterranean,

and rushed here overnight
in coldwater vessels.

You know, we have this lovely appointment
three times a year.

And yet, your disposition...

never strikes me as grateful.

Pardon me for saying, governor,
but you should be washing my feet

for ensuring an orderly festival.

You know, in the Empire,
we tolerate other religions

because we see them all
as variations on the same thing.

For instance...
 Don't!

If I were to touch them, the garments
would be unclean for five days?

Seven.
 Oh.

So many lambs would thank me.

I'll take the garments
and be out of your way.

Ah, ah, ah.

Not take.

Receive.

Your 12 gemstones corresponds
to our zodiac in the heavens.

First put forth
by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy.

Enough. I get it.

To the victor belong the spoils.

So because these are ours,
your right to borrow them is given,

provided you keep your people
under control.

No riots.

I noticed there are nearly double
the number of pilgrims this year.

I do not recall a greater turnout
in my lifetime.

Is it unreasonable
to assume double the revenue?

It's simple math.

Between the currency exchange
and the temple tax,

the coffers are
already beginning to overflow.

Ensure they do.

Is there anything else?

No. Thank you, governor.

Oh, Caiaphas, one quick thing.

We have three executions
scheduled for Friday,

one including a zealot m*rder*r.

Please make sure your people
are there to see.

I want to send a clear message.

To the extent I have any control,
it'll be done.

Thank you.

You know,
we're going to be friends one day.

The hour has come
for the Son of Man to be glorified.

Truly, truly, I say to you,

unless a grain of wheat falls
into the earth and dies, it remains alone.

But if it dies, it bears much fruit.

What does this mean?

Whoever loves his life will lose it.

Whoever hates his life in this world
will keep it for eternity.

If anyone serves me, he must follow me.

For where I am, there my servant is also.

Oh!

Aren't you a sight for sore eyes?

Oh, where else would I be?

Where are you all staying?

Perhaps the men know.

Oh, well, I have use of a large home
in the Essene Quarter

owned by my friend Phoebe.

Is she comfortable with 15 strangers?

She doesn't stay in Jerusalem
during these festivals.

She hates the crowds,
but has plenty of beds,

and a discreet entryway
through the alley in the back.

That sounds perfect.

Say the word, and I'll see to it
that the rooms are prepared.

And I can tell her to have the rooms
ceremonially cleaned as well.

Oh, thank you.

crowd gasps, murmurs

whimpers

ominous ambient music playing

Now my soul is troubled.

And what shall I say?
"Father, save me from this hour"?

No.

No.

But for this purpose,
I have come to this hour.

Father, glorify your name.

I have glorified it,

and will glorify it again.

thunder rumbling

Was that an angel's voice?
I'm sure I heard the word "glorify."

Keep listening.

Did you hear that?
 Strange thunder?

That wasn't thunder.

Those of you who heard a voice,
it was for your benefit, not mine.

There will be many signs this week,
as now is the judgment of this world.

Now will the ruler of this world
be cast out.

And I,

when I am lifted up from the earth,

will draw all people to myself.

What do you mean?

The light is among you
for a little while longer.

Walk while you have the light,

so that darkness doesn't overtake you.

The one who walks in darkness
doesn't know where he is going.

While you have the light,
believe in the light,

so that you may become
sons and daughters of light.

thunderclap

chuckles

This time it was just thunder.

all chuckle

And I think you all know
what that sound means, hmm?

It's time to find shelter.

I will speak with you all again soon.

Shalom, shalom.

Shalom, shalom.

Excuse us. Make way.

It'll be all right, Zee.
 This way, Rabbi.

chuckles

We should go.
 Okay.

Mary. Mary?

She'll be fine.

Everybody,
he said he will speak again soon.

You will hear more.

Until then, find shelter.

melancholy music playing

"Father, save me from this hour"?

Save Him from what?

He's said it before.

I just think we all haven't wanted to
hear it, or it's not sinking in, or...

Sometimes He speaks in parables.

Then why did He seem so unsettled?

Have you ever seen Him anxious?

The Pharisee and Sadducee, they said
turning back could save His life.

They don't care about Him.

Does he? Care?

He's acting more and more
like someone with no regard, or...

A grain of wheat falls into the earth
and must die...

before it can bear fruit.

But die in what sense?

Mary, John?
 Are you coming?

So, Joanna has graciously provided
a place for us to stay.

Thank you, sister.

As you all move through the city,
spread my message.

Any parable or teaching
you've heard from me,

you may repeat it to anyone
with ears to hear.

Time's running out.

Before Passover.

The Passover is a deadline?

For what?
 Take your bags.

Go get settled.

What about you?

Ah. I'll be there, uh...

Soon.

That's it.

Well, let's go.

All right.

Come on,
let's get out of here. Let's go.

Matthew grunts

Andrew, come here.

Take my things back to the house.

I'm gonna get started doing what he said,
spreading the word.

Alone?
 No.

Matthew.
 Hmm?

Come with me.

I'm going to preach.

And?

You should write it down
in your little book.

That would be redundant.

Rewhat?
 Redundant.

You'll just be repeating words
he's already taught

and that I've recorded.

Matthew,
you're assuming I'll be good at this.

Yeah, you'll be terrible.

The first time.

I need to know what crazy things
come out of my mouth. Come on.

The Lord tests the righteous.

But his soul hates the wicked
and the one who loves violence.

Let him rain coals on false prophets.

Fire and sulfur and scorching
wind shall be the portion of their cup.

The Lord tests the righteous.

But his soul hates the wicked
and the one who loves violence.

Let him rain coals on false prophets.

Fire and sulfur and scorching
wind shall be the portion of their cup.

Welcome, Pilgrims.

From what part of Israel
does the Holy City greet you?

Tel Dor.
 Joppa.

Others from Jezreel, Shechem.

Ah, all in the North.
Are you traveling as a family clan?

You might say that.
 Of what tribe and house?

The house of justice.
 Justice for whom? Israel?

Hey, brothers, please.
This is no time for violence.

The Passover is a sacred...

What's going on here?

Oh, I just was welcoming your, uh...

your group to Jerusalem. Shalom, shalom.

I heard you say something about violence.

The opposite of shalom.

No, I was...
 There is a false prophet

scorching the land, luring young minds,

deceiving people into heresy,

and in some cases, even into death.

Well, uh, he or she sounds dangerous.

Has Jesus of Nazareth made his way
into the city yet?

He more than made his way in.
It was something of a scene.

I bet it was.

Are you seeking an audience with Jesus?
 Could you secure me one?

No, we haven't met.

Many people greeted him,
but too many to actually meet him.

I must warn you,

if you've come to oppose him,
you will find yourself in the minority.

There is a fervor around that man
that no one alive has seen before.

No one alive.

The Lord tests the righteous.

But his soul hates the wicked
and the one who loves violence.

Let him rain coals on false prophets.

Fire and sulfur and scorching wind...

And I thought Lazarus's house
was an upgrade.

Hey, Little James, take this taller one.
It'll be easier to get out of.

Thanks.

This is going to be the nicest Passover
I've ever had.

We'll see.

What?
This is too comfortable for you, Zee?

He is deeply suspicious
of anything soft or comfortable.

I'm thinking of the others
outside the city.

The ones who tried to stone us.

Two people against a thousand.
 Yes, singing of victory for a king.

I can think of at least
two powerful institutions

who might feel threatened by that.

He rejects the notion of an earthly crown.

You trust Rome to hear nuance?

Regardless of what he may or may not say,
people clearly made up their own minds.

Nothing happens outside
of his intentions, Zee. You know that.

How's your headache?

Crowds did not help.

I'm trying to bond with...

On the temple steps, He did not seem
to relish their enthusiasm.

In fact, He literally said,
"My soul is troubled."

And He looked troubled.

He wondered aloud if He should ask God
to save Him from this hour.

Yes, and John wrote that down.

But immediately after, He resolved,

"For this purpose,
I have come to this hour."

So what is it about this hour
that troubles Him?

He has told us at least twice,

He would suffer many things from
the elders, chief priests, and scribes.

Yes, and He handles them all.

Rome is the real threat.
 What about the thunder?

It sounded like a voice.

Do you think it meant anything?

It did sound almost like a voice.

When people want to believe something,
they can make the skies talk.

Do you want to believe?

Imported silk.

Oh, terra sigillata.

Oh, your friend has high tastes.
 Indeed.

What is this image?

Oh, that's Heracles slaying
Laomedon of Troy.

Ooh. Dramatic.

Phoebe says that she prefers her drama
onstage or on pots,

not in her streets,
which is why she's gone for the week.

Probably for the best.

Yes, my husband and I have been

accompanying the royal courts here
for years

and never seen anything like this.

Does your husband know
that you are staying with us?

No.

But even if he did, Chuza's not dangerous.

He's a fool.
 Fools can be dangerous.

I'm sorry.

I just... I need a minute.

sighs

Didn't mean to disturb you.

Disturb?

This woman's home is filled
with strange scenes.

It's the, uh, ghost of Clytemnestra
attempting to wake the Sleeping Furies.

You've read everything.

Don't tell my parents.

The, uh, the Furies are winged spirits
driven by blood vengeance.

They chase people and torment them,
until they are driven mad.

Sounds familiar.
 Which part?

Blood? Vengeance?

Torment? Madness?

Mysteries too great to comprehend.

Or worse, not mysterious at all.

Terrifyingly plain.

Yes.

Today, he entered through the sheep gate,

where all the sacrificial lambs are
brought in from Bethlehem.

Is he making this so painfully obvious

that people would never think
to put it together?

If he is...

what do we do?

I hate the feeling of powerlessness.

To him who created the great lights.

For his steadfast love endures forever.

The sun to rule over the day.

For his steadfast love endures forever.

The moon and the stars
to rule over the night.

For his steadfast love
endures forever.

To him who struck down
the firstborn of Egypt.

For his steadfast love
endures forever.

And brought Israel out from among them.

For his steadfast love
endures forever.

With a strong hand
and an outstretched arm.

For his steadfast love
endures forever.

To him who divided the Red Sea in two.

For his steadfast love
endures forever.

And made Israel pass through
the midst of it.

For his steadfast love
endures forever.

King Herod can't have been pleased
by the entry today.

Maybe he'll do to the Nazarene
what he did to the cousin.

I don't believe Herod wanted
to k*ll the Baptizer.

It sounded like things got out of hand.

It was Herodias.

Oh, well, let's
just get her to dislike Jesus.

Jesus doesn't seem preoccupied

with the tetrarch's family
the way John was.

He's a coward, which further proves
he's not the real Messiah.

The true Christ would have gotten
that traitor out of the way by now.

Don't you wonder
why he doesn't condemn the Empire?

Tiberius Caesar throws
his rivals off cliffs in Capri.

Has his enemies ex*cuted
with their children.

Not a word from Jesus on that.

He's insulting our own
more than our oppressors.

Yet no one seems ready
to hold him to account for that.

Present company excluded.
 Mmm.

I can think of others in the temple.

But they are less concerned
about the death of one girl in the Galilee

than their positions.

We'll just have to make this
as personal for them as it is for us.

lively chattering nearby

people clapping rhythmically

Mazel tov to Reuben and Ruthie.

Mazel tov to Reuben and Ruthie.

people singing nearby

I love a good party, but, uh, I'm curious.

It's a bit more mirth than usual
for the Passover, no?

Not that I mind.

Reuben and Ruthie's parents
just announced their betrothal.

Ah, wonderful.

Come on.
 What?

Come on.

Are you always this nice with strangers?

You're not a stranger now. You're family.

I have to say,
I thought the dancing would be better.

Somehow I think we're getting worse.

Hosanna!

Hosanna to the Son of David!

Hosanna! Hosanna in the highest!

Hosanna.

Oh.

Thank you. Thank you.

Please, rise.

There's no need to draw attention. Please.

But what are you doing here?

Well, I was just out for a walk.

And I suppose I...

I got swept up in your joy.

Congratulations on your betrothal.

I will leave you to your celebration.

This night is not about me.

Shalom, shalom.

Rabbi.

Will you bless us before you go?

Come here, my children.

Blessed are you, Lord our God,

King of the Universe,

who created joy and gladness,

groom and bride,

mirth, song, delight, and rejoicing,

love and harmony,

and peace, and companionship.

May God bless you, Reuben and Ruthie.

May your daughters be like Sarah, Rebekah,
Rachel, and Leah,

and your sons like Ephraim and Manasseh.

Our union was just blessed
by the Son of David.

And to all present here tonight,

may the light of the paschal feast
burn within you,

that with heavenly desires and pure minds,

you may attain the festival
of everlasting light,

the kingdom I am bringing into this world.

_Chag Pesach Sameach,_ my friends.

_Chag Pesach Sameach._

Thank you.

Hosanna!

Hosanna!

lively chattering, chanting nearby

ominous music playing

cooing

lively chattering continues

blowing

lowing

bleating

Jerusalem.

Jerusalem.

For the days will come upon you...

when your enemies
will set up barricades around you.

And surround you.

And hem you in on all sides.

And tear you down to the ground.

You and your children within you.

And they will not leave one stone
upon another in you.

Because you did not know the time
of your visitation.

ominous music continues

music stops

Zeb.

It's okay. It's all right.

Listen, I need you to do something for me.

Of course.

Tomorrow morning, will you take my _eema_
back to the house of Lazarus,

along with his two sisters?

Uh, I can, but...

But the Passover. Won't you...

I have a plan, Zeb.

I just don't want her in the city
for the next few days.

Please, trust me.

I always do.

Be sure to leave immediately at dawn.

And, uh, tell her
I will come to visit soon.

Thank you.

Now go back to sleep.

pensive music playing

pensive music continues

dramatic music playing

"Chains" playing

All of these chains

Weighing down on me
Weighing down

All of these chains

Weighing down on me
Weighing down

My mind's a haze with all this pain

And I can't change a thing

Lost in this maze
I can't find a way

I can't break my spirit free

All of these chains

Weighing down on me
Weighing down

All of these chains

Weighing down on me
Weighing down

Yeah I drift away
To a brighter place

That I close my eyes to see

And there someday
I think that things will change

But I'm losing my belief

All of these chains

Weighing down on me
Weighing down

All of these chains

Weighing down on me
Weighing down

I'm down on my knees
I need some relief

Some quiet and peace

I've been here before
Tethered and torn

I won't take any more

All of these chains

Weighing down on me
Weighing down

All of these chains

Weighing down on me
Weighing down


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
