05x02 - House of Cards

Will you lay down your life for me?

I only have a few things left to say,
so please listen carefully.

Remember when I sent you out, two by two?

How could we forget?

I told you to take no money bag,
or knapsack, or sandals.

And did you lack anything?
Nothing.

Jesus Nothing.

But it was far easier then.

You were serving your own people,
and they wanted you there.

They welcomed your message.

Our ministry was growing,
and there was little resistance.

From now on, it will be different.

You will be going into a hostile world.

The nation has rejected me,
and now they will reject you.

Because you are not of the world,

because I chose you out of the world,

the world now hates you.

breathes heavily

If you have a money bag, bring it.

Likewise, a knapsack.

And if you don't have a sword,
sell your cloak and buy one.

Zee Master.

We do have two swords.

Certainly, it's not enough
to defend 12 men against violent attacks

Eleven.

It is enough.

We'll sell our cloaks, buy more.

Protect ourselves properly.

It's all you'll need for now.

My point is that you should be prepared
for hostility and persecution.

But ultimately,
your protection will come from above.

shakily I still don't understand.

sniffles

You've talked about leaving us.

Telling us to be prepared,
but that you'll give us a helper.

Why not stay, Rabbi?

Why do we need all this
when we have you, and we're all together?

You will all fall away
because of me tonight.

What? breathes shakily
No, we won't.

Our Zechariah said,
"I will strike the shepherd,

and the sheep of the flock
will be scattered."

breathes shakily

But after I am raised up...
inhales sharply

...I will go before you to Galilee.

Even if they all fall away from you,
I will never fall away.

Simon.

Simon, behold.

softly Simon?

Satan demanded to have all of you,

that he might sift you like wheat.

But I have prayed for you specifically
that your faith may not fail.

And when you have returned,
strengthen your brothers.

I don't know what you're talking about.
Satan wants to sift us, and all that.

But I swear to you, on my eema's grave,

I'm ready to go with you
both to prison and to death.

Peter, I am giving you all these warnings

about what's coming tonight,
and moving forward,

so that when it all happens,
you'll know it was part of God's plan.

And that I am who I say I am.

And I'm telling you...

even you,

the rooster will not crow this day

until you deny three times
that you even know me.

Peter No, no.

Even if I must die with you,
I will not deny you!

No Lord but God to the death.

I would die with you too!
I won't leave you.

all clamoring
I would die for you!

I would die for you!
We would all die for you, Master.

Greater love has no one than this.

That someone lay down his life
for his friends.

And that's what we'll have to do?

That's what I will do.

"Walk on the Water" playing

Oh, yeah

Oh, child, come on in

Jump in the water

Got no trouble with the mess you been

Walk on the water

Walk on the water

Walk on the water

Oh, child

Walk on the water

Got no trouble

Walk on the water

vocalizing

Walk on the water

Good morning, Eema.

What's this?

A little something to celebrate

your first wedding job
without your father and I.

chuckles

Isn't it a little premature?
I have no idea how this will go.

Eema.

chuckling I can't believe it.

We are proud of you,
no matter how it goes.

Our love is not conditional.

II know it's not, but still... sighs

Some mothers might adorn
their daughters before a trip like this,

thinking that appearance
might impress the client.

chuckles I suppose it couldn't hurt.
chuckles

Ramah, you don't need mere appearance

to sway a client's confidence
in your capabilities.

Your intuition,

your knowledge,

your way with people...

It all speaks for itself.

chuckles softly

May Adonai bless and keep you, child.

sighs, chuckles

Now listen, Thomas.

My comrade Rafi didn't fare
quite as well as me financially

after our time together in the wars.

The wedding tier he paid for
is the threeyear vintage up top,

and then as the evening wears on,
the twoyear.

The vineyard's cheapest arrangement.

But I want to surprise him
with generosity.

He's a good man. He deserves it.

Actually, I don't know
if he's still a good man.

It doesn't matter.

He was when I knew him.

A lot better than me, that's for sure.

You are a good man, Kafni.
You've been a mentor and a role model.

Thank you, Thomas.

grunts My wedding gift is
to shock and amaze Rafi and Dinah

with our 15year Augustus vintage.
chuckles

Well, at least
for the first two barrels. chuckles

You know the routine.

If I didn't,
you wouldn't be sending us alone.

Don't embarrass me
or the vineyard, Thomas.

You have my word.

Oh, how very Thomas.

Everything set up way ahead of schedule.

It's why we keep him on.
Naomi chuckles

Quite a bit obsessive, that head of yours.

chuckles I didn't ask for it.
It just is.

Make us proud, my sweet.

I will, Abba.
You'll do great, Thomas.

I know he doesn't say the words to you,
but deep down, he believes in you.

chuckles
chuckles

I don't know what to say.

You treat me like family.

We'll leave you and the servants to it.

Naomi and I have to meet
with a new vendor in town.

Shalom, shalom, kids.

both Shalom, shalom.
Shalom, shalom. chuckles

Feels like yesterday
he was just an orphan boy,

showing up at our door,
asking if the vineyard needed workers.

Is that pride I hear?

Let's just say,
I've always been able to spot potential.

gasps Ah.

You can take credit for Thomas.

I'll take credit for Ramah.

I'll admit to this.

Her good looks, she definitely got
from your side of the family.

chuckles

And her wit and pluck.
Oh. What does that leave me?

Inherited property.
groans

Peter And the master told him,
"You owe me."

And since he could not pay,
the master ordered his children sold.

crowd muttering

whispers Him and his wife.

Ordered him and his wife sold.

Along with all his possessions.

And children, and all that he had,
and payment to be made.

So the servant fell on his knees
and begged,

"Have patience with me,
and I will pay you everything."

And out of pity for him,
look what this master did.

The master of that servant released him
and forgave the debt.

But when that same servant went out,

he found one of his fellow servants
who owed him...

who owed him only a single denarii,
less than a halfday's wages?

AAnd... Hep...

sighs
chuckles

That was humiliating.

I thought I could tell that story
in my sleep.

The words, I couldn't find them
in front of everyone.

Sorry, Andrew,
I thought I knew this one so well.

He's beating himself up.
scoffs

I can't believe I besmirched
such a wonderful teach

I've never been more proud of you.
They were hanging on your every word.

Words you had to feed me when I faltered.

What's a brother for?

They were hoping to see Jesus, not me.

Who cares? The point is, you just preached
one of your first sermons

since the twobytwos in Jerusalem,

to a huge crowd, the week of Passover.
Mmhmm.

Wait, did... did Matthew write down
all my mistakes?

No, he wasn't there.
sighs

Did anyone see the guy on the stairs
with the hood taking notes?

What? A Pharisee?
No, I don't think so.

You hear that?
You're in some guy's report.

Andrew, he could be reporting us
to our enemies.

Jesus openly confronts the Pharisees.
They haven't been able to take Him down.

Peter is not the Messiah.
Whoa, whoa, whoa,

I said I was the Messiah?

Only Rome can arrest someone.

Except within the temple walls.

Jesus told us not to be anxious
about tomorrow.

There is a difference between anxiety
and a discerning spirit.

Yeah, well, take your discerning spirit
somewhere else.

chuckling Hey, everybody, calm down.

It's a big week.

Let's get some lunch. Hmm?
Yes, let's get some food.

That was so good. Come on. So good.

pensive music playing

Just one of His followers,
preaching to a crowd of about a hundred.

Any false prophecy?

Not that I could tell.
Just a story about forgiveness.

Give any other details
to Yiftach for his report.

I will.
Thank you, Dori.

I have to go meet the new oil vendor.

Tamar Are these... What is this called?
Andrew I don't remember this.

Mary wanted grapes. And lemons.
Oh, yes, she did.

We don't need le...
I can try to make the dish Martha made.

Philip All right.
Andrew You get used to it.

Andrew.

Leander? Leander! Wha...

Philip. chuckles
Leander, so good to see you.

You remember Dion?
chuckling

chuckling Of course.

And Fatiyah?

Ah.

both chuckle

chuckles
chuckles

You seem to be on better terms.

Give it time. sighs
chuckles

Uh, this is Tamar.
See?

A woman follower of Jesus, and a Gentile.

I told you I wasn't crazy.
Andrew chuckles

Shalom. Are we allowed to say that?

Well, if not, I have been wrong
for years. chuckles

We came all the way
from the Decapolis to worship Him

and to observe this pilgrimage holiday.
Dion It's permitted, right?

I mean, she's here, so I guess?

There are Gentiles here, yeah.
You're not alone.

Where's Jesus?

We don't know.
You don't know?

He'll be around. chuckles

Andrew, may I ask a stupid question?

scoffs Have you met my brother?
chuckles

Yes, of course.

What is Passover,
and how do we celebrate it?

Passover is a celebration
of the story of Exodus,

where God freed the Israelites
from bondage in Egypt.

There's more to it, but you'll start
with an offering to God in the temple.

I'm guessing you didn't bring along
any animals without spot or blemish.

Good guess.
No problem. Neither did we.

Well, there is a market in the court
of Gentiles where we can buy one.

Yeah?
This way.

We need to get ours too.
You haven't already?

Well, our, um,
arrival to Jerusalem was eventful.

I would imagine.

His name is on everyone's lips.

I think I might know the answer to this,
but just to doublecheck,

what coinage do you have on you?

Uh, Greek drachma.
May I see one?

Whose face is this on the front?

Artemis, goddess of the hunt,
or supposed goddess, I should say.

So here's the thing.
A sacrificial animal cannot be purchased

with foreign currency
bearing the image of a pagan deity.

I'm sorry. It must be exchanged
for an acceptable form of Hebrew payment

with the proper weight and purity.

Why are you apologizing?
Seems like a reasonable rule to me.

The exchange rate is exorbitant.
I see.

What kind of an animal are we talking
about here, and for how much?

Depends on your means
and the extent of your sin.

The bigger the sin, the bigger the animal.

Tamar And more expensive.

There are oxen, bulls, red heifers,
rams, sheep, goats, doves, and pigeons.

We're familiar
with ceremony and sacrifice.

I didn't bring enough for livestock.
Do they take credit?

Yes, but I urge you not to take it.
The interest is predatory.

But all that truly matters
is how repentant you are in your heart.

If all that matters is the heart,
why would anyone buy an ox or bull?

For the show of it, Dion.
Philip Not just for show.

It's an important and, in fact,
a beautiful symbol of God's grace.

There has to be a penalty for our sin,

and He allows atonement through this,
rather than any other means.

But there are some who abuse the practice.

Does Jesus approve of all this?

It isn't in keeping with the spirit
of what He taught us in the Decapolis.

He says he did not come
to do away with the law,

but rather to interpret it
fully and properly.

You didn't answer the question.

Dion Wow.

people chattering, shouting

First stop,
we need to exchange your coins.

merchant Next.

What are you paying with today?

Drachma.
Drachma.

At the current exchange rate,

two Greek drachma is equivalent
to about one and a half temple coins.

What are you looking to buy?
A goat.

A goat?

Judging by the guilty look in your eye,
I'd say you're gonna need more of a sheep.

sighs
Or a ram.

Tell me, how many impure thoughts
have you had this week?

About half as many as you,
and as third as many as me, okay?

Let him alone.
A goat is all I can afford at this time.

Ah. Very well. That'll be 10 drachmas.

Wait for it.

And then four and a half more
for the exchange tax.

Let's, uh... let's call it 14.

That's 45% on top
of the price of the animal itself.

I gave you a halfshekel break.

But 45% for what? To whom?

Fifteen percent in payroll sales tax
to Rome.

Fifteen percent booth rental fee
to the Jewish authorities

for transacting business
on temple grounds.

From all of this, I take a measly shekel,
and I have to feed my family.

I don't do this for free. Would you?

For such a holy celebration, I might.
merchant chuckles

Well, you don't have to worry
about it, lady.

Why?
It's only for men.

Excuse me?

Do you hear that choir singing
from beyond the wall?

The orchestra.
The incense filling the air.

You see the smoke rising
from burnt offerings?

Over a million people are here.

And that means
over a million sacrificed animals.

Do you think the wood to fuel the fires

to incinerate the remains
just falls from the sky?

And the man power
to manage it all is gratis?

All adult males are required
to pay a temple tax each year

to finance this show.

It's not theater.

Do you want to buy a sacrifice
to make an offering or not?

Brother, he just wants to worship Adonai.

Don't be caustic.

These are sacred grounds.
Yes, and you're holding up the line.

I've never seen
so many mounds of incense in my life.

Myrrh, saffron, cinnamon.

It covers up the stench of blood.

both It's not working.
Andrew chuckles

Oh, a sign in Greek.

And Latin. For good reason.

"No stranger will enter
within the balustrade

around the temple or enclosure.

Whoever is caught will himself
be responsible for his ensuing death."

Oof. All right, message received.

"Keep out, Gentiles."
Ensuing death?

Does that mean
God will strike you down Himself?

I'd prefer not to find out.

Tamar and I are gonna buy birds.

You go get your goats
and we'll meet you back here, hmm?

I think it's this way.

birds cooing

Ah, here it is. These would be perfect.

in Ge'ez Aksumite Emerald.

You don't see that
this far north very often.

Oh, no?

I thought it was one of Ethiopia's

most common exports...

in English Two pigeons, please.

Emerald is very common, yes,

but I do believe that the Di'amat ivory
commodities will rise above it very soon.

I don't keep up with news
from the old country.

I'm not from Ethiopia.

I'm from Libya, near the coast
in the Jebel Akhdar uplands.

Part of the Pentapolis.
Ah, you know your geography well.

And what are you doing
all the way up here?

Um, trying to make a living for my sons.

What are you doing all the way up here?

Celebrating Passover.

Right.

Two pigeons, please.

The sight of you and your emerald
revive memories of my sister.

And for that wonderful gift,
it gives me pleasure

to offer you these doves for free,
on the house.

One set for you, and one for your friend.

Doves?

Well, at least take our money
for the cost of the pigeons.

No, I couldn't.

It would be a dishonor
to the memory of my sister,

which you brought rushing back
like an angel.

Are you sure?

in Ge'ez "However far a stream flows,
it doesn't forget its origin."

in English Here.

Thank you.

doves cooing

in Hebrew Happy Passover.

Happy Passover.

in English Sir.

Well, as Andrew said, we must remain
in the court of Gentiles on pain of death.

So, what do we do
when we get to the priest?

Hand him our doves and tell him our names.

Is he keeping a list?

chuckles Wouldn't surprise me.

Abba, leave it. It's secure.
I put it in.

Zebedee, son of Jonathan
of Capernaum, Galilee.

Yes, and this is my son, John.
Shalom.

I'm Malchus, chief servant of operations
to the office of the high priest.

both Shalom.
Shalom. Right this way.

Jairus spoke of you in such glowing terms,
one would think you were the Messiah.

What is your secret?

Uh, to be perfectly honest,
a woman who helped perfect the recipe

had been an esteemed vintner
from the Plain of Sharon.

Tragically, she has gone to be with God.
Ah. sighs

all May her memory be a blessing.

Your business is a welcome change.

Our contract we had
with the Gethsemane vendor

was entangled in bureaucracy
and old family ties.

Jairus's recommendation gave us a way out.

Since you entered
through the beautiful gate,

I assumed that you are immersed
in mikvah and are ritually clean.

It goes without saying.
both Yes.

The Chamber of Oils has
a higher standard of ritual purity,

due to the sacred uses of the oils
for the chief priest,

and the eventual anointing
of the King of the Jews

when he finally arrives.

Glad to hear that.
Just a forewarning.

The Master of Oils requires
a verbal confirmation of purity

beyond simple mikvah immersion

before entering to have your oils
evaluated by the board.

Understood.

Rabbi Zebediah, shalom.

Shalom, Malchus.

Malchus This is Zebedee.
This is his son, John of Galilee.

Oh, yes, we've met.

Once you've obtained
your requisite verbal confirmation,

I will, uh, wait outside with the cart
to make sure it isn't stolen.

Even within the temple courtyard,
you'd be surprised what could happen.

In accordance with the laws
of the Third Book of Moses,

do you solemnly swear on pain of death,

John, the son of Zebedee,
and Zebedee, son of Jonathan,

regardless of mikvah immersion,

that you have not, in the past seven days,

touched a corpse,
touched a mole, mouse, or lizard,

come into contact
with a menstruating woman

or a chair on which she has sat,
or one of her vessels,

had a seminal discharge in your sleep,

been diagnosed with leprosy,
or eaten unclean foods?

I have not.

Even with the mikvah purification?

chuckles John...

You know what?

You should wait outside with me.

I'm sure I have no idea
which one of those disqualified you.

Touched a corpse?

Leprosy.

I couldn't go in either.

Also for...

leprosy.

both chuckle

Your offer to bravely stand guard
over a cart

in one of the safest parts of Israel
wasn't a giveaway at all.

both chuckling

These old men,
punishing us for having bodies.

The law is the law, I guess.

It's not the Law of Moses.

They added the sevenday stipulation
so they could relish turning people away.

Surely it's not that sinister.

Oh, I work for Caiaphas.

In the high priest's sphere,

everyone must define their place
in the order.

Demonstrate whom they are higher than
and purer than.

Older than.

both chuckle

What's a man to do with his youth
in these troubled times?

Troubled?

Caiaphas obsesses over one rabbi.

His irritation permeates
the entire household,

the temple, the Sanhedrin,
every office and committee.

Huh.

And, um... clears throat

...what would Caiaphas
like to see happen to this, uh...

this rabbi?

Well, in every proposed scenario,
he risks either breaking the law,

losing his power,
inflaming the ire of Rome,

inciting riots, losing his position.

Yeah, but he, uh...

He has to do something, right?

Yes, and he's running out of time
and options.

The Passover is in three days.

What does that matter?

No trial can be held during the Passover.

Oh, right. Yes, yes, I remember.

Jesus of Nazareth needs to be tried
and held accountable for Sabbathbreaking,

false prophecy,
a whole litany of other offenses.

But the people,
the people are ready to crown Him king.

So, what's a high priest to do?

Did they mention anything about
Ah!

That will be all, Zebedee,
son of Jonathan.

That's it?

Not even a welcome to the temple.
chuckles

I will escort you to Caiaphas's office,

and we will finalize the paperwork.

This way, my brothers.

What?

Stop looking at me like that.

Yes. Have you tried the garum? Hmm?

Herodias and I have it imported
from Rome by the amphorae.

Along with copies of the latest plays
and poetry no doubt, eh?

Ah, Lucretius, Virgil, Horace...
Mmm. Mmm. Mmm.

...Ovid writes...
Yes.

...he writes,
"Death is less bitter punishment

than death delayed."
Mmm.

You're better quoting Moses,
David, Solomon, Isaiah.

Oh, Cai, it's simply not as fun.

You know what else isn't fun?

Trying to protect our entire nation

when the people's hysteria
over a man they want to be king

could provoke Rome
to wipe us off the face of the earth.

Um... Oh, Jesus, yes? The one they say
raised the man at Bethany from the dead.

Don't insult me
by pretending you don't know.

On the contrary.
That's why I summoned you here today.

Pilate wanted me to relay a message,
which I will do,

since I'm a man of my word.
scoffs

He suggested we consider k*lling Lazarus

and putting the rumors of Jesus's
supposed powers to rest,

delegitimizing his following.

Caiaphas Not that simple.

For one thing, only Rome has the authority
to enact capital punishment.

I agree. It's the last thing
we want to be associated with.

Oh, but it has happened before.

You should know.

Your fatherinlaw, he knows.

And your people have already tried
to stone Jesus to death.

"Your people"?

Our people, Antipas.

You act like you're not one of us.

You're obsessed with Roman culture.

Their music, their chariot races,
their condiments.

You're wearing a toga.

Oh. Mmm.

Quite comfortable, actually.
I don't know how you survive in this heat

suffocating yourself
under all these layers and layers...

I have received a prophecy from God.

Oh, I'd forgotten the two of you
speak regularly, yes?

Hmm?

Has He said anything about me?

The prophecy...

is that one man will die for the people
so that our nation will not perish.

Are you sure this prophecy came from God,
and not your wife's father?

How dare you?

I seem to remember Annas.

I do have sympathy for you marrying
into his family, by the way.

Had such a penchant
for k*lling his adversaries

that Pilate's predecessor, Gratus,

had him removed
from the office of high priest.

I know he's still exerting
enormous influence on you.

Through your wife.

I've never had someone k*lled
via the influence of my wife.

It was Salome
who requested the head of the Baptizer.

Well, we all know
who put her up to it, eh?

Oh, Caiaphas, if you go through with this,

you might...

you might keep your marriage
and get a pat on the back

from your fatherinlaw,
but you will lose your job.

The case against Jesus
is thinner than a silk strand,

as far as Rome is concerned.

They have no regard for Torah.

What you deem false prophecy.

Only for the rule of imperial law.

They don't care if He's a threat to you.
They care only if He's a threat to them.

And from what I've heard,
He's only preached peace andand...

uh, forgiveness and love, humility,
bunch of other boring stuff.

And performed harmless magic tricks,
which, honestly, I would love to see.

I'm always game for a fun illusion, huh?

chuckles He spooked me at first.

Mmm. Between you and me,

I thought He might be the Baptizer back
from the dead to avenge me. chuckles

But now He just seems amusing.
The people herald Him as king.

The Son of David.

But has He identified Himself as king
publicly, in those exact words, hmm?

Not that we have on record.

Then how will you defend your actions,
Caiaphas?

When Pilate comes to depose you
for breaking the law,

and executing someone
outside the Roman justice system.

You k*lled the Baptizer!

I am the tetrarch of Galilee!

I have special dispensation.

And you want to know something?
I regret it.

People hate me now.

Didn't even want to do it.

Mmm, but you did.

You chose your wife over popularity,
and you would begrudge me the same.

Here's what I begrudge you.

I'm the one saddled with the onerous task

of mediating the balance of power
between the temple and Rome.

A job I was born into.

You? You're a craven social climber.

Who married your way
into an aristocratic family

and happened to become high priest

only because Governor Gratus
had to depose Annas

for doing the very thing
you're trying to do.

And if you succeed, I'll be the one left
to pick up the pieces.

If that's true,

why would you summon me here

to deliver a message from Pilate
that I should k*ll Lazarus?

Because Lazarus is a nobody.

And you could make it look
like an accident.

Anyway, it was
an offhanded comment from Pilate.

Because I told him
the people's only reason

for belief in Jesus
is the raising of Lazarus.

Jesus is different. It's Passover.

There's too many people here.

The city's on edge.

Your paranoia is clouding
your understanding of my intentions.

I'm under no delusion
that my position as high priest

could survive an illegal
and unpopular execution

which would likely prompt
rioting in the streets.

Then what are you doing?

sighs

This may sound crazy.

But I actually believe in our God, Adonai.

The King of the Universe.

And He told me that one man will die

so that our nation will not perish.

Which means it will happen.

Oh?

Did He happen to say
if the one man was Lazarus or Jesus?

No, thankfully that's plain.

Jesus is tearing the populace apart.

Now, unless you want to alienate
your subjects further,

I plan to wait for Jesus to misspeak

and incite the ire of Rome.

And then they can take care of Him.

Before they feel the need
to take care of us.

Hence...

one man will die.

He hasn't exhibited a pattern
of misspeaking about Rome.

So I will prompt Him.

ominous music playing

I'm listening.

There is one thing the people hate
more than they love Jesus.

Kafni Obsessive, that head of yours.

Kafni?

No cucumber good enough, huh?

IIIt's for the Seder supper.

Which is three days away.

Always ahead of schedule.

Except when it came
to protecting my daughter.

I'll come back later.

Whoa, whoa, easy.

Buy your ingredients now.

It's for your last supper.

What?
With the Nazarene.

Any meal you share with Him
is almost certain to be the last.

I can tell you that.
Don't delay, you insect.

Sir, you are disrupting the market.

You led her to her death.

I did not.

I'll call a Roman guard.
Please, no violence.

And now your master will be next.

Sir, you should leave.

Now.

Come on, let's go.

The last supper. I vow it.

breathing heavily

Ramah Thomas?

Ramah?

Thomas.

How is...
Thomas?

gasps How is...

Shh. It's me.

Naomi?

You looked like...

crying I thought she was...

I have those moments too.

I'm sorry, Naomi.

I'm so sorry.

sobbing

Naomi.

I miss her so much.

I can't do this right now, Thomas.

I prayed to God that
I would not see you here this week.

I want to hate you, Thomas.

I really, really do.

But I know that she loved you, and...

she was a smart young woman.

And she made her own choices, and...

you.

She chose you, Thomas.

sniffles

sobs

sniffles

sobbing She was supposed to bury me,
not the other way around.

I'd give anything to take her place.
So would I.

So would Kafni.

Ramah loved the life that we were making.
I know, I know.

And she loved Jesus.

That name.

I have not allowed myself to speak it.

I have been critical and resentful
and deeply troubled ever since.

These are things born in my own heart.

From my own guilt.

Jesus did not k*ll her.

This may shock you, but...

I don't always understand
unless it's spelled out for me.

Ramah was the intuitive one.

She believed everything He did.

Big James Rabbi!

Rabbi. Excuse me.

I must go.
What is happening?

As usual, I don't know,
but I'm going to find out.

I hope Kafni hasn't done something.

Thank you, Naomi. Love you. sniffles

merchant One more, one more.

Let's go, next. What are you paying with?

people chattering

animals grunting, bleating

doves cooing
Hey, one for you, sir?

Fiftyfive.

Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem.
grunts

breathes shakily

Two for the price of three?

Excuse me.

Let's keep it moving.

What are you doing?

Why are you bringing food through here?

I'm taking it to the market.
This is a shortcut.

This is a place to worship the Father,

not a shortcut.

Let me through.

No.

Let me through.

Turn around and go back.

Now.

merchant What are you paying with?

One more, one more.
coins clinking

What are you paying with today?

This place used to be filled
with the sounds

of prayer and worship to My Father.
Your father?

Now I can't hear worship
because of animal sounds.

And all of you arguing over prices.

Which sound about the same.

All right, so,
what are you paying with today?

You will see.

Next.

ominous music playing

merchant Next!

music intensifies

breathing heavily

shouts

people gasping
gasps What are you doing?

Get out!

All of you!

people clamoring

people gasping, shouting

Move!

person He's gone mad!

Jesus All of you, move!

Stop profaning My Father's house!

grunts

Go, go!

grunting

merchant No, stop, please.

You.

Take these away!

Stop making My Father's house
a place of business!

No!

yells

whip cracks
people shouting

Look what you've done
to My Father's house!

Den of thieves!

Out of the way!

You.
No, no, please.

You are part of the problem.
No, please, please.

I have a family. Please, no.

No!
You should not be here!

Go! Get out!
merchant No.

animals bleating
Jesus Move!

Go, go!
No, no, no!

Guards. Summon the temple guards.

Let them out. Move!

Yanni. Now.

Jesus Get them out!

They do not belong here!

all clamoring

Move it, move it, move.

people clamoring outside

thudding, banging

Peter!

Peter, come quick!

What's happened?
I don't know. He's gone mad.

What?

dramatic music playing

people clamoring
animals bleating

yelling

gasps, yells

This desecration is on your shoulders!

And you...

brood of vipers!

people clamoring

Coming through.

people gasp

Hey, come on, why are you doing this?

breathing heavily

tense music playing

What have you done?

theme music playing


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
