05x08 - The Upper Room Part II

[Jesu♪] ♪ Oh, Lord
Make me know my end ♪

♪ And what is the measure of my days ♪

- ♪ Surely all mankind ♪
- Joab?

♪ Stands as a mere breath ♪

Joab, what are you d...

[humming]

Where's, uh, where's Joab?

Oh, shalom.

What happened to Joab?

Oh, uh, I'm not sure.

Other than that the foreman told me
he wouldn't be here today.

And so I should handle the ramp.

- Hope he's all right.
- Yeah, me too.

You know, it would've
surprised me if you were him.

Joab can't carry a tune.

It's not really my specialty either.
[chuckle♪]

No, I'm saying, he really can't.

To the point he has to mouth along
to the songs in synagogue,

so he doesn't ruin it for everyone else.

Sounds like a very considerate carpenter.

I'm Jesus, by the way.

Thaddeus. Stonemason.

Oh, that's what you were doing
over there with the...

with the rock cutting,
and the stacking, and the mortar.

I had no idea.

Okay.

You know, it's beautiful work
that you're doing there.

- [Jesu♪] Ah.
- Yeah.

You can kind of see where
Joab's work ends and yours begins.

Your cedar planks are lined up straighter.

You're kind, but tell me,
did this Joab eat your lunch too?

He can't sing,
he lays crooked cedar planks.

- He sounds quite terrible.
- No, no, he's...

he's fine.

Speaking of lunch, it's about that time.

- Are you going to take a break?
- I suppose it is.

May I join you?

- You live here in Bethsaida?
- Oh, no.

No, I'm from Capernaum.

So, while working on this job,
I've just been camping.

Oh, me too.

You're from Capernaum?

Oh, no. The camping part.

I was born in Bethlehem in Judea.

I lived in Egypt for a while.

But I spent most of my life in, um,

in Nazareth.

Hmm.

- I'll hold for the joke. [laugh♪]
- No.

I don't like to make fun
of where people are from.

Really? Hmm.

I mean, plus, who gets
to say they lived in Egypt?

I mean to me, that cancels out
the Nazareth thing.

- [groan♪] There it is.
- [laughs, sigh♪]

But Egypt.

I mean, that's a stonemason's wonderland.

[chuckle♪]

- All the architecture.
- Mmm.

Some of it will last.

What?

The wonders of Egypt.

Some of it will still be there
thousands of years from now.

But that's mostly the exception.

I don't follow.

Well, think of the ruins of Jericho.

King Solomon's temple.

The lost cities of Admah,
Zeboiim, and Zoar.

Even the finest stonemasonry
and the sturdiest cedar planks

eventually relent under the as*ault
of weather, w*r, and time itself.

This latrine.

[♪coff♪]

Sorry.

What was the polite thing
they told us to call it?

A public amenity.

[Jesus clears throat]

Yes, this very fine public amenity

- we're building.
- Mm-hmm.

In a few thousand years,
no one will even know it existed.

Or that we existed?

Hmm. Well...

I'm also a rabbi, by the way.

Excuse me?

We are a pair of men building a privy

in a small town in Northern Galilee,
in a tiny country,

under the occupation
of the enormously powerful Roman Empire.

But what if I told you
I have something else in mind for my life,

and yours?

Like what?

Something that will last.

A kingdom not built by hands.

A fortress stronger than stone.

Would you want to join me
in helping build that?

[♪coff♪]

Uh, this...

I... I don't understand what you're saying.

I mean, you don't have the means
to own land or a home,

and yet you're offering to...

hire me for my services?

Not the ones you're using today.

Then what?

I mean, I'm not good at anything else.

- That's what you think.
- That's what I know.

Forgive my boldness,
but I'm a little uncomfortable.

- Why is that?
- Because you ju--

You don't know me.

Yes, I do.

We met a half an hour ago.

- Join me.
- In doing what?

I told you. Building a new kingdom.

- Just the two of us?
- No.

But I have to start somewhere,
and where better than here?

- And with who better than you?
- [♪coff♪]

Look.

I don't know what you're talking about.

But you could definitely do
a lot better than me.

And here. Look, no offense to Bethsaida.

I said,
I don't like to make fun of small places.

I'm getting back to work.

I have wages to collect from my labor.

- Leave with me tonight. Final offer.
- You haven't made an offer.

A new kingdom.

Eternal value.

What's the pay?

- The pay?
- Yes, the income, the daily rate.

Housing arrangements.
You have that all worked out?

There is no pay.
At least, not in the earthly sense.

I'm a rabbi.

And I'm asking you to follow me.

It was nice meeting you.

You'll be part of changing the world.

Become part of a family not of relatives,

but of blood bonds just the same.

Spend your days with
some of the most interesting,

unfettered,

funny,

driven,

brave,

nurturing,

smart,

strong,

passionate,

fiery,

loyal,

loving,

imperfect people

to ever walk the earth.

You will see...

and do...

things you cannot imagine.

You will be adored.

Hated.

Needed.

Lost.

And found.

You will live everywhere.

And nowhere.

You will lose friends.

You will lose all your friends.

And your own life.

You will go to the ends of the earth,

and yet be part of the beginning
of the greatest movement on earth.

People will say you were a fool,

and that I was a fool,

and that it was all a lie.

They'll call us heretics,
and liars, and frauds.

Others will celebrate
and venerate your memory,

and call you a saint.

But none of that's the point.

The point is that you will have said "yes"

to the world's "no."

That you hoped against hope,

and believed against belief.

That you surrendered everything,

and held fast to the very end.

Will you follow me?

[♪niffle♪]

Are you okay?

Yeah. What...

Thad, they said, take an ambiguous
and evasive route.

- Not the longest one possible.
- I was the last to leave.

Seven, eight, nine, ten...

There is still one more to come, Mark.

Right.

John's put himself at Jesus' right hand.

Don't you want to be at his left?

No, I'm good.

I'm happy to sit next to you.

We ready for this?

- Yes.
- No.

Ready for what?

Whatever is about to happen.

- Only one way to find out.
- Can we define "ready"?

Does it matter
whether we are ready or not?

Matthew.

You've changed. [chuckle♪]

Who cares if we're ready?

Don't know, Philip, it would be nice to
know what we're talking about here.

What's the prevailing theory?

["Walk on the Water" playing]

♪ Oh, yeah ♪

♪ Oh, child, come on in ♪

♪ Jump in the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble with the mess you been ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Oh, child ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

♪ Got no trouble ♪

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[vocalizing]

♪ Walk on the water ♪

[group] ♪ The stone the builders
have rejected ♪

♪ Has become the cornerstone ♪

♪ This is what the Lord has done ♪

♪ Marvelous before our eyes ♪

[Jesu♪] My friends, it's time.

Don't you think
I should keep one of those?

Well, he said two is enough, huh?

Besides, aren't you basically
a weapon in human form?

[♪igh♪]

Hey, psst. Come on.

What did he whisper to you?
Did you ask him?

[♪igh♪] He said that the betrayer was
the man who he shared bread with.

And that was Judas.

- He said it was Judas?
- Not by name, just the bread thing.

No. Judas wants the ministry to grow,
not stop.

[♪igh♪]

I don't know. It had to be a metaphor.

He also said that
you would deny him three times.

- Before the rooster crowed.
- That had to be a metaphor too, right?

Unless you know something that I don't.

[dramatic music playing]

[Jesu♪] All of you.

Sit there while I go in here and pray.

[Andrew] Do you, um...

need anything, or...

I need to pray, Andrew.

Please.

Peter, James, John.

Please, come with me into the olive grove.

- You wanted to see me, governor?
- No, but I have to.

Well, I could wear a mask if you'd prefer.

Put that down. It was expensive.

I happen to know
this piece was already here

when Valerius Gratus was in residence.

That doesn't mean it wasn't expensive.

- You summoned me here to talk about art?
- The art of cunning.

Ooh, spicy.

Is it true you've been recruiting
street thugs to provoke the crowds

and turn the tide of public opinion
against Jesus?

- Where did you ever get an idea like that?
- I have my sources.

You've been spying on me.

Well, I must say,
that betrays a lack of trust.

- You could've just asked.
- Why should I trust you?

You're loyal to no one but yourself
and Tiberius, but I bet you'd shank him

just like they did Julius
if it served your ends.

[chuckle♪]

What are you smiling at?

There may be hope for you yet,
young Pontius.

Just Pontius, not young.

There may be hope for you yet, Pontius.

I'd be flattered if someone
addressed me as young.

Yeah, well, you're not.

And neither am I.

This job has aged me.

Yeah. Let me know
when your chest hair goes gray.

- Oh, wait, you don't have--
- Stop right there!

- Somebody's in a mood.
- Why shouldn't I be?

I feel very uneasy about Jesus.
It's plaguing every area of my life.

Every?

Why are you working with
these unsophisticated malcontents

from the North, hmm?

Executing three criminals tomorrow
isn't enough?

- You need a bigger win.
- One is a zealot.

No one likes zealots
and criminals on either side.

Doesn't make an impact.

Jew and Roman alike, happy to see him go.

You didn't answer about these stupid thugs
that you've got running around,

spreading rumors and poison.

And ruining what could be
a perfectly peaceful Jewish holiday.

We both know it's not going to be that.

Whichever way it goes down,
your only job is to win,

and to win definitively.

Which is to say, however dirty
you have to play to get there,

at the end of the day,
make Rome look like the good guy.

- Arresting Jesus would do the opposite.
- Look, this man, Kafni, and his thugs...

- they're chaos.
- Then why are you working with them?

Because their bitterness
and resentment is pliable, untrained.

Artless.

They don't even realize that their anger

is actually rooted
in their own shortcomings.

It can be weaponized and wielded.

Yes, back at us.

Sure, sometimes
it can be projected on to Rome,

and maybe we deserve it.

They have lost a lot at our hands.

But when that proves
to be unfruitful, as it always will,

they can just as quickly
redirect that anger on to their neighbors,

or the religious authorities, and now...

on to Jesus.

And I'm supposed to take that
as good news?

Yes, because in this case,
the people aren't going to listen.

Sensible people will see them
for who they really are, and reject them.

All the while, you remain
in a powerful position

to keep the peace,
to keep the money flowing.

And...

And...

Make Rome the good guys.

Congratulazioni, Governatore.

You know...

for a spy, you haven't
been paying very close attention

to the events of the past week.

Jesus is singular.

His very presence in this city

heralds a kind of momentous reckoning

that I don't fully understand,

but I know I don't like
how it makes me feel inside.

- Good.
- Good?

Molto bene.

You recognize the gravity
of the situation.

You're right.

There is a reckoning that's coming.

And when the votes are tallied,
you may very well be the tiebreaker.

Which gives you a chance
to solidify Rome's position,

while letting the Jews
be the chaotic ones.

You were wrong about me earlier.
Close, but wrong.

- Really?
- You're right, I'm not loyal to you.

But I'm not loyal to Tiberius, either,

or anyone else...

but her.

Her?

Mother Rome.

For this week at least,

don't let anyone distract you from her.

No one.

Oh, please, do give Claudia my best.

Haven't seen her in a while.

[door open♪]

So, are you going to give me your best?

[♪igh♪]

My best to you, darling.

I thought you were asleep.

You know I haven't slept in days.

One would never know. You...

You look great.

Why didn't you tell Atticus the real
reason for your feelings toward Jesus?

You heard all that?

You weren't quiet.

[♪igh♪] Yes, I told him it was plaguing
every area of my life,

and that includes our marriage,
by implication.

- I told you I wanted us to leave.
- I can't look weak.

Especially now.

He told you
you needed to win definitively.

And you're setting yourself up to lose.

[chuckle♪]

- So, you don't trust me either?
- You really want me to answer that?

You just need to sleep, darling.

Please, go back to bed.

If you knew what I see
when I let myself fall asleep,

you'd stay awake all night too.

What things do you see?

Tell me.

The way things are going, Pontius,

I don't have to tell you.

Because pretty soon,
you'll see for yourself.

This is absurd, intolerable.

Caiaphas, you have no right
to convene this body at night,

and on a High Holy Day, at that.

There are exceptions permitted
in the event of a national emergency.

One prophet is no national emergency.

Rome is not sacking the temple
or burning Jerusalem down.

This is no minor event.
Don't diminish this.

What if he actually is the Christ?

There is no prophecy
that says the Christ comes from Galilee.

The Scriptures say he comes from
the offspring of David, from Bethlehem.

Discredited lineage
is the least of his crimes.

Is there no other sane person
with tenure here

who will speak up against this madness?

You're outnumbered.

You don't have a quorum. Sit down.

We are finished here
until the temple guard brings him in.

[doors opening]

[Nicodemu♪] We are not finished here.

Rabban Nicodemus. [chuckle♪]

I see your health has returned.

How good of you to join us.

What is the meaning
of this unlawful assembly?

Oh, well, take a seat.

We'll fill you in.
We've got so much to tell you.

No, I have much to tell you.

[knocking on door]

You almost missed our deadline.
We agreed on 24 hours.

I have the location.

I can take you to him now.

Tova, send our courier to the Sanhedrin,

and tell Caiaphas we are on our way
to arrest Jesus now.

Yes, Malchus.

Follow me.

[tense music playing]

- One more important detail.
- Yes?

No one here knows who Jesus is.

How will you point him out
without escalating tension?

[wistful music playing]

[gasp♪]

[John] Master.

[breathing shakily]

[Jesus breathing shakily]

John.

I'm so sad.

[Jesus gasping]

My soul...

is filled with sorrow.

Even to the point of death.

The point of death?

- Should we get a doctor?
- [breathes shakily]

No.

You just said you're
on the verge of dying from sorrow.

- What do you want us to do?
- Not from sorrow.

[♪omber music playing]

[breathes heavily]

[Jesus shudder♪]

- Enough. I'm sending for a doctor.
- No.

[breathing shakily]

The Great Physician himself
will minister to me.

Just stay here.

Keep watch.

Be near me.

That's all.

We will.

I'm going to go
further into the garden to pray.

Stay awake.

Make sure no one can see or hear me.
Do you understand?

- [John] Mmm.
- I'll come back in a little while.

- [♪tammer♪] Are you sure?
- Rabbi, let us help.

You can help by trusting me,

and staying here to keep watch.

[crie♪]

This is it.

[crying]

This is it, Father.

This is the place.

My Father in heaven,

hallowed is Your name.

[♪niffle♪]

The time has come, Father.
The time has come.

I'm here.

[♪tammers, crie♪] I'm ready.

[crying]

I don't think I can do this, Father.

You ask too much of me. I can't.

[crying]

Father, please.

Please.

The sorrow.

Make me stronger.

Make me stronger than I am, Father.

[weeping]

- [weeping continue♪]
- [ax chopping]

[chopping continue♪]

Abba?

I'll be right there, Isaac.

[Abraham crying]

[Abraham] I'll be right there.

- [Isaac] I can carry that, Abba.
- Are you sure?

Yes, we can strap it to my back.

You're too old to carry it
all the way up the mountain.

[Abraham]
I'll pretend you didn't say that.

[Isaac chuckle♪] I'm just trying to help.

All right, all right.

I'm old, if you say so.

[Abraham] Let's go.

- Abba?
- Yes?

You have the fire, and I have the wood,
but where is the lamb?

God will provide for himself
the lamb for the burnt offering, my son.

But how?

He doesn't go through with it,
young Isaac.

We spared you.

It was a test.

Abba.

Father.

If it be possible...

let this cup pass from me.

All things are possible for You.

Please.

Could there be another way?

You spared Isaac.

Let this pass from me.

Make a way, Father.

If You are willing.

If You are willing,
remove this cup from me.

But...

But not my will, but Yours be done.

My Father in Heaven...

hallowed be Your name.

[♪niffle♪]

Your kingdom come, Your will be done.

Not mine.

I trust You.

I trust You, Abba.

I trust You. [chuckle♪]

[♪igh♪]

Simon.

[grunt♪]

- You couldn't watch with me for one hour?
- I'm sorry, I just dozed off for a second.

Do you remember how I taught you to pray?

Of course.

And lead us not into...

[all] Temptation.

Watch and pray that
you may not enter into temptation.

- Did you call him Simon?
- What temptation?

I already said it.

I know that your spirit indeed is willing.

- But the flesh is weak.
- No, no, it was just a moment.

It won't happen again. We'll keep watch.

I know you want to.

- You want to be prepared for anything.
- We are.

But then there is the reality of the body.

Remember at dinner when I told you
about the helper that I would send?

- Yes.
- The... The Spirit.

I have warned you
there is a hardship coming.

Stay alert.

And pray.

[♪hushe♪]

Sorry.

[breathes shakily]

My Father.

[♪niff♪]

I've asked if there could be another way.

[breathing shakily]

But if this cup cannot pass
unless I drink it...

[pensive music play♪]

Your will be done.

Your will be done.

[crying]

[crying continue♪]

[bells chiming]

[crunch]

[♪niff♪]

[breathing shakily]

Ezekiel.

Tell me, Son of Man...

can these bones live?

Oh, Lord.

Only you know.

[breathes shakily]

[crying]

[kisse♪]

[Jesus crie♪]

[♪igh♪]

[chuckle♪]

[♪igh♪]

Father.

[♪niffle♪] If You are willing...

remove this cup from me.

[crie♪]

Yet not my will, but Yours be done.

Not my will.

Your will be done.

[crying]

Father, please.

Please, if there's any way.

[♪niffles, sobbing]

Please, Father.

Not my will.

Not my will, but Your will be done.

[♪obbing]

[gasp♪]

[crying]

[Joseph] My son.

Hey.

[Jesus sniffle♪]

Thank you.

I'll be waiting for you.

[Peter gasp♪]

Still sleeping and taking your rest?

[♪igh♪]

Master, I'm so sorry.

I don't know why this keeps happening.

The spirit is willing.

But the flesh...

It is enough.

The hour has come.

Rise, it's time to go.

Go?

The Son of Man is betrayed
into the hands of sinners.

Sinners.

Look, my betrayer is here.

[Philip] Andrew, Andrew.

- Rabbi.
- [Jesu♪] Zee.

- [Zee] Rabbi, don't.
- Stop right there. Get back.

[Philip] Guys, stay back.

It's all right.

[Judas sigh♪]

[inhales deeply]

Rabbi.

My friend.

Do what you came to do.

♪ Flee as a bird ♪

♪ To your mountain ♪

♪ Thou who art weary of sin ♪

♪ Go to the clear flowing fountain ♪

♪ Where you may wash and be clean ♪

♪ Fly for the avenger is near thee ♪

♪ Call and the savior will hear thee ♪

♪ He on his His bosom will bear thee ♪

♪ Thou who art weary of sin ♪

♪ Oh ♪

♪ Thou who art weary of sin ♪

♪ He will protect thee forever ♪

♪ Wipe every falling tear ♪

♪ He will forsake thee, O never ♪

♪ Sheltered so tenderly there ♪

♪ Haste, now, the hours are flying ♪

♪ Spend not your moments in sighing ♪

♪ Cease from your sorrow and crying ♪

♪ The savior will wipe every tear ♪

♪ The savior ♪

♪ Will wipe every tear ♪

- Need something?
- Oh, geez. [exhales sharply]

[crew members laughing]

Carry this, will you. Come on.

- We don't have all night.
- All right, Rabbi.

[crew members laughing]

[crew member 1] Oh, man.

- [crew member 2] Hey.
- [crew member 3] Hey.

[Thaddeu♪]
The rabbi and I were passing by.

It's cold.

You shouldn't be sleeping on the ground
without a fire or shelter.

Where are you going?

[Little Jame♪] Jerusalem.

Jerusalem?

You've got a long way to go.

Yeah, and what's it to you?

Wha--

Rude. [♪tammer♪]

Come on, forget it.

We were gonna go to an inn and invite you,
but it's fine. You just enjoy the dirt.

- Enjoy your camping thing.
- Yeah.

Camp... Camp away.

- Can you believe that guy? Unbelievable.
- Ridiculous.

[Jesu♪] It's this way.

No. No, it's this way. Sorry.

He asked me a question, I said--

No, you said it
before he stated the question.

I feel like I can't say anything
without everybody getting on me.

There's a reason why we do.

You don't say it kindly.

I-I don't? I... I mean well.

I seem to remember
people singing and chanting.

[Nathanael]
Sure. Singing, chanting, then screaming.

Screaming, then chanting.

[Nathanael] Chanting, screaming, singing.

[all laughing]

- There was screaming too.
- Some screaming.

Most chanting.

Most chanting.

Your definition of chanting is--

They were saying "hosanna,"
they weren't saying... [♪cream♪]

I-Is everything all right?

- Yes, yes, yes. Just been a long day.
- Ah.

Yes, yes, come. Come.

Uh... Uh, give my regards to Rachel, huh?

- Rachel?
- Rebecca.

- Oh, right.
- Yes. Yes, that one.

[crew members laughing]

This is Annas, son of Annas.

Sorry about that.

- Annus? Anus? Say it again.
- Sorry.

Every time. [chuckle♪]

Every time, especially you.

[Big Jame♪]
Ever since I got hit in the head.

[all laughing]

Oh, sorry about that.

[director] Cut. Cut. Let's reset.

[crew member 4]
That's a reset, everybody. Resetting.

How will you identify him
without raising que... tension?

- I don't--
- [chuckle♪]

- Terrible, sorry. Sorry, sorry, sorry.
- Do it again.

How will you point him out
without escalating tension?

- [director] Cut.
- I'm going to shoot him.

But he who had received the one talent
went and dug in the ground,

and buried his-- [♪tammer♪]

Ah.

Well...

It's good to see you again.

Don't suppose you've come
to sit and listen to my teaching.

Now, are they supposed to be there?

[all laughing]

[director] Cut.

[crew members chuckle]

[director] Thank you.


This site is dedicated to my son, Michael.

The Chosen Transcripts
 
 
